---
Title: 2024-07-09 - Diary
Type: Journal/Diary
Date-Created: 2024 July 09, 07:17 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 10, 08:33 am
journal: diary
journal-start-date: 2024-07-09
journal-end-date: 2024-07-09
journal-section: day
---
## 2024-07-09 - Diary

Holy Father,

I recognize that the enemy is trying to stop me from getting back on track with You. PLEASE - help me, Lord … help me to get rid of this anger and frustration. Help me to get rid of my anger towards Mark - he, too, is going through depression and frustration; taking things out on him isn't fair or helpful.

We need You, Father. We cannot be, or do, what You created us to be or do without You working it out in our lives. We will never have Jesus formed in us without You doing it in us. I call upon You, O God … I cry out to You with all that is within me … PLEASE HELP!!!

Thank you, Lord … Wilkerson's Boldness As A Lion Newsletter was helpful this morning. I am not perfect or holy in myself; I have nothing to bring to You … except for the Righteousness of Christ Jesus which has been imputed to me. I am clothed with Him … and thus I can stand in Your Presence as acquitted and clean.  

---

Holy Spirit,

I'm feeling blockages still; like there is still a curtain between Thee and me. I come and fall down before You; I lay everything down at Your feet. As I was reworking my notes, You caused me to remember You said to "put away the past … let it die" because only in this way can life be produced.

Okay, Lord … I ask for Your help because I cannot even do this without You. You are my Source … for everything … 

In Jesus' Name, I lay all of my past upon Your altar to be nailed to the Cross;  
all of my failures; shortcomings, vileness, commandment-breaking, wasted time … everything; that it would be put to death; that something new can emerge; that good fruit might be produced for Your glory, honor, praise and thanksgiving.

Yesterday, one of the videos you put in my youtube feed talked about You asking "What do you want from Me?" And that You were wanting us to write down the specifics of exactly what I want You to do. You gave me some things to begin my list …

### Fleshing Out My Vision

You told me to make a list of things I want You to expand.

**Habakkuk 2:2-3**  
#OT/Habakkuk-2v2-3  
#Prophecy/Vision/Write-it-Down

> [!note] **Habakkuk 2:2-3**  
> 2 Then the LORD answered me:  
> "Write down this vision  
> and clearly inscribe it on tablets,  
> so that a herald may run with it."
> 
> 3 For the vision awaits an appointed time;  
> it testifies of the end and does not lie.  
> Though it lingers, wait for it,  
> since it will surely come and will not delay.

#Prophecy/Confirmation/Vision/Write-it-Down  
Okay … out of nowhere, I got Habakkuk 2:2-3 again today in a CS Lewis youtube video ["7 Signs That God Is About to Restore All Your Wasted Years"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0sjjlFNDcW4)

**Prayer of Jabez**  
#OT/1-Chronicles-4v10

> [!note] **1 Chronicles 4:10**
> 
> 10 And Jabez called out to the God of Israel, "If only You would bless me and enlarge my territory! May Your hand be with me and keep me from harm, so that I will be free from pain."

#ToDos  
So, I need to ask You to expand my borders / territory

- locationally
- spiritually
- sphere of influence
- empowerment
- faith
- expansion
- harvest - 2 Corinthians 9:8-12
- gifts
- KNOWLEDGE OF THE LORD
- hearing His voice
- Discernment
- Wisdom
- Knowledge
- Understanding
- Insight
- Revelation
- Illumination
- Inspiration
- So full of the Spirit that He would emanate out from me so effectively that, like Peter, even my shadow falling on the sick would heal them; that **everyone** brought to me for healing and deliverance would be healed and delivered and that You alone would receive all the glory
- increased boldness to speak in Jesus' Name
- increased capacity to believe for, and walk in, **everything** given to us by God, through Jesus Christ
- divine protection / deliverance because You are a wall of fire around me, my possessions, my property; that no one would be able to overpower or overthrow what You want to do through me
- For God's heart's desire to become my actions
- to KNOW His mind
- to OBEY Him in every detail as a natural outgrowth of my love for Him as natural to me as breathing
- enlarged foundation upon which God can build in order to perform what He desires through me

Other things to start praying for …

- That the fear of God would start falling upon the peoples - both in the church and without - so that none who are not sincere would even dare to join the Remnant.
- Proper reverence for the NAME of Jesus

This brings me back to Isaiah 54:1-3

#OT/Isaiah-54v1-3  
#Promise/Spiritual-Offspring  
#Prophecy/Enlarge-and-Expand/Tent-Site  
#Prophecy/Enlarge-and-Expand/Left-and-Right  
#Promise/My-Children/Will/Dispossess-Nations  
#Promise/My-Children/Will/Inhabit-Desolate-Cities

> [!note] **Isaiah 54:1-3**  
> 1"Shout for joy, O barren woman,  
> who bears no children;  
> break forth in song and cry aloud,  
> you who have never travailed;  
> because more are the children of the desolate woman  
> than of her who has a husband,"  
> says the LORD.
> 
> 2 "Enlarge the site of your tent,  
> stretch out the curtains of your dwellings,  
> do not hold back.  
> Lengthen your ropes  
> and drive your stakes in deep.
> 
> 3 For you will spread out to the right and left;  
> your descendants will dispossess the nations  
> and inhabit the desolate cities.

### Being Hidden In God's Quiver

#OT/Isaiah-49v1-2  
#Prophecy/Hidden/In-Gods-Quiver  

> [!note] **Isaiah 49:1-2**  
> 1 Listen to Me, O islands;  
> pay attention, O distant peoples:  
> The LORD called Me from the womb;  
> from the body of My mother He named Me.
> 
> 2 He made My mouth like a sharp sword;  
> He hid Me in the shadow of His hand.  
> He made Me like a polished arrow;  
> He hid Me in His quiver.

**Notes from prophetic videos on youtube yesterday** 

- you were hidden because your call is bigger than you think
- your influence will rise
- expansion of ministry
- you were purposely hidden in this season -- to protect you and keep you
	- THIS IS A CHARACTER ISSUE
	- Your identify hasn't been fully revealed yet
- the call still stands
- be willing to expand, enlarge, elevate

**Promotion / Graduation**
- increase in gifts

**Training Season**  
	allowed to make mistakes for the purposes of growth and character building

**Home Stretch**  
	God is strengthening my legs

**Put your net down on the other side of the boat**  
	Okay Lord, I have NO clue what this one might mean in my circumstances / situation. I need more revelation from You on this one.
