---
tags: []
Date-Created: 2024 August 15, 06:15 am
Date-Modified: 2024 August 15, 02:45 pm
journal: diary
journal-end-date: 2024-08-15
journal-section: day
journal-start-date: 2024-08-15
Title: 2024-08-15 - Diary
Type: Journal/Diary
---
## Prophecy when I Left Hong Kong

#OT/Isaiah-49v1-2 

> [!NOTE] **Isaiah 49:1-2**
> 
> 1 Listen to me, O islands;\
> pay attention, O distant peoples:
> 
> **The LORD called me from the womb**;\
> from the body of my mother He named me.
> 
> 2 **He made my mouth like a sharp sword**;\
> **He hid me in the shadow of His hand.**\
> **He made me like a polished arrow;**\
> **He hid me in His quiver.**

- He called me from the womb #I-Am/Called 
	- I've been getting that I am a *called-out-one* lately #Called/Out/One  
- HE NAMED ME before I was born #I-Am/Named/By-God #God/Named/Me/Deborah 
	- does this mean that I will be like the *Deborah* of old? 
		- A prophetess-judge-warrior?
- He made my mouth like a sharp sword #Prophecy/Like/A-Sword-Mouth
	- currently being trained to effectually wield the Sword of the Spirit 
- He hid me in the shadow of His Hand #Prophecy/Hidden 
- He made me like a polished arrow #Prophecy/Like/A-Polished-Arrow
	- another weapon of war
- He hid me in His quiver #Prophecy/Hidden/In-Gods-Quiver  
	- it's been nearly 40 years
		- like Israel being in the desert for 40 years
		- this lines up with all the promises that it's time to prepare to cross over into the promised land.

## An Expansion of Isaiah 54

#Question/Am-I/Misappropriating/Scripture

Lord God, please reveal to me whether this is truly an expansion of the Isaiah 54 promises you have previously made to me, or whether I am incorrect misappropriating them.

#OT/Isaiah-54v1-3 

> [!NOTE] **Isaiah 54:1-3**
> 
> 1 "Shout for joy, O barren woman,\
> who bears no children;\
> break forth in song and cry aloud,\
> you who have never travailed;\
> because more are the children of the desolate woman\
> than of her who has a husband,"<sup>a</sup>\
> says the LORD.
> 
> 2 "Enlarge the site of your tent,\
> stretch out the curtains of your dwellings,\
> do not hold back.\
> Lengthen your ropes\
> and drive your stakes in deep.<sup>b</sup>
> 
> 3 For you will spread out to the right and left;\
> your descendants will dispossess the nations\
> and inhabit the desolate cities.
> 
> **Footnotes:**
> 
> 1 a Cited in Galatians 4:27\
> 2 b Or *and strengthen your stakes*

- I am to have many children #Promise/My-Children/Are/More-Than/She-Who-Has-a-Husband  
- I have so many children that it is necessary to enlarge my dwellings #Promise/Enlarged/Tents-and-Dwellings 
- My descendants will dispossess the nations and inhabit desolate cities #Promise/My-Children/Will/Dispossess-Nations #Promise/My-Children/Will/Inhabit-Desolate-Cities 

#OT/Isaiah-54v9-17

> [!NOTE] **Isaiah 54:9-17**
> 
> 9 "For to Me this is like the days of Noah,<sup>c</sup>\
> when I swore that the waters of Noah\
> would never again cover the earth.\
> So I have sworn that I will not be angry with you\
> or rebuke you.
> 
> 10 Though the mountains may be removed\
> and the hills may be shaken,\
> My loving devotion will not depart from you,\
> and My covenant of peace will not be broken,"\
> says the LORD, who has compassion on you.
> 
> 11 "O afflicted city, lashed by storms,\
> without solace,\
> surely I will set your stones in antimony\
> and lay your foundations with sapphires.<sup>d</sup>
> 
> 12 I will make your pinnacles of rubies,\
> your gates of sparkling jewels,\
> and all your walls of precious stones.
> 
> 13 Then all your sons will be taught by the LORD,<sup>e</sup>\
> and great will be their prosperity.
> 
> 14 In righteousness you will be established,\
> far from oppression,\
> for you will have no fear.\
> Terror will be far removed,\
> for it will not come near you.
> 
> 15 If anyone attacks you, it is not from Me;\
> whoever assails you will fall before you.
> 
> 16 Behold, I have created the craftsman\
> who fans the coals into flame\
> and forges a weapon fit for its task;\
> and I have created the destroyer\
> to wreak havoc.
> 
> 17 No weapon formed against you shall prosper,\
> and you will refute every tongue that accuses you.\
> This is the heritage of the servants of the LORD,\
> and their vindication is from Me,"\
> declares the LORD.
> 
> **Footnotes:**
> 
> 9 c Some manuscripts **For this is like the waters of Noah**\
> 11 d Or **lapis lazuli**\
> 13 e Cited in John 6:45

- God has made a covenant of peace with me - #Promise/God/Swore/A-Covenant/of-Peace/Will-Not/Be-Broken 
	- Will not be angry with, or rebuke, me #Promise/God/Swore/Not-to/Rebuke-Me #Promise/God/Swore/Not-To/Be-Angry-With-Me 
	- His loving devotion will not depart from me #Promise/God/Swore/Loving-Devotion/Will-Not/Depart-From-Me 
	- This covenant will not be broken #Promise/God/Swore/A-Covenant/of-Peace/Will-Not/Be-Broken 
- He is to fortify the walls of my dwellings #Promise/God/Swore/Fortifies/My-Dwellings
- He is to teach all of my descendants #Promise/God/Swore/My-Children/Taught-By-God
- All of my descendants will be prosperous #Promise/God/Swore/My-Children/Will-Be-Prosperous 
- In righteousness I will …
	- be established #Promise/God/Swore/I/Will-Be/Established 
	- be far from oppression #Promise/God/Swore/I/Will-Be/Far-From-Oppression 
	- have no fear #Promise/God/Swore/I/Will/Have/No-Fear 
	- terror will be far removed #Promise/God/Swore/Terror/Will-Be/Far-Removed 
		- it will not come near me #Promise/God/Swore/Terror/Will-Not/Come-Near-Me 
	- if anyone attacks me,
		- it is not from God
	- whoever assails me 
		- will fall before me
	- No weapon formed against will prosper #Promise/God/Swore/No-Weapon/Formed/Against-Me/Will-Prosper
	- I will refute every tongue that accuses me #Promise/God/Swore/I/Will/Refute/Every-Accusing-Tongue 
	- THIS is my heritage of the LORD
	- my vindication is from God.

#OT/Isaiah-49v3-6

> [!NOTE] **Isaiah 49:3-6**
> 
> 3 He said to me, "You are my servant, …\
> in whom I will display my glory."
> 
> 4 But I said, "I have labored in vain,\
> I have spent my strength in futility and vanity;\
> yet my vindication is with the LORD,\
> and my reward is with my God."
> 
> 5 And now says the LORD,\
> who formed me from the womb to be His servant,\
> …\
> 6 He says: "It is not enough for you to be My servant, …"

#OT/Isaiah-49v8-12

> [!NOTE] **Isaiah 49:8-12**
> 
> 8 This is what the LORD says:\
> "In the time of favor I will answer You,\
> and in the day of salvation I will help You;<sup>c</sup>\
> I will keep You and appoint You\
> to be a covenant for the people,\
> to restore the land,\
> to apportion its desolate inheritances,
> 
> 9 to say to the prisoners, 'Come out,'\
> and to those in darkness, 'Show yourselves.'\
> They will feed along the pathways,\
> and find pasture on every barren hill. 
> 
> 10 They will not hunger or thirst,\
> nor will scorching heat or sun beat down on them.<sup>d</sup>\
> For He who has compassion on them will guide them\
> and lead them beside springs of water.
> 
> 11 I will turn all My mountains into roads,\
> and My highways will be raised up. 
> 
> 12 Behold, they will come from far away,\
> from the north and from the west,<sup>e</sup>\
> and from the land of Aswan.<sup>f</sup>"
> 
> 13 Shout for joy, O heavens; rejoice, O earth;\
> break forth in song, O mountains!\
> For the LORD has comforted His people,\
> and He will have compassion on His afflicted ones.
> 
> 14 But Zion said, "The LORD has forsaken me;\
> the Lord has forgotten me!"
> 
> 15 "Can a woman forget her nursing child,\
> or lack compassion for the son of her womb?\
> Even if she could forget,\
> I will not forget you! 
> 
> 16 Behold, I have inscribed you on the palms of My hands;\
> your walls are ever before Me.
> 
> 17 Your builders<sup>g</sup> hasten back;\
> your destroyers and wreckers depart from you.
> 
> 18 Lift up your eyes and look around.\
> They all gather together; they come to you.\
> As surely as I live," declares the LORD,\
> "you will wear them all as jewelry\
> and put them on like a bride.
> 
> 19 For your ruined and desolate places\
> and your ravaged land\
> will now indeed be too small for your people,\
> and those who devoured you will be far away.
> 
> 20 Yet the children of your bereavement\
> will say in your hearing,\
> 'This place is too small for us;\
> make room for us to live here.'
> 
> 21 Then you will say in your heart,\
> 'Who has begotten these for me?\
> I was bereaved and barren;\
> I was exiled and rejected.\
> So who has reared them?\
> Look, I was left all alone,\
> so where did they come from?' "
> 
> 22 This is what the Lord GOD says:\
> "Behold, I will lift up My hand to the nations,\
> and raise My banner to the peoples.\
> They will bring your sons in their arms<sup>h</sup>\
> and carry your daughters on their shoulders.
> 
> 23 Kings will be your foster fathers,\
> and their queens your nursing mothers.\
> They will bow to you facedown\
> and lick the dust at your feet.\
> Then you will know that I am the LORD;\
> those who hope in Me will never be put to shame."
> 
> 24 Can the plunder be snatched from the mighty,\
> or the captives of a tyrant<sup>i</sup> be delivered?
> 
> 25 Indeed, this is what the LORD says:\
> "Even the captives of the mighty will be taken away,\
> and the plunder of the tyrant will be retrieved;\
> I will contend with those who contend with you,\
> and I will save your children.
> 
> 26 I will make your oppressors eat their own flesh;\
> they will be drunk on their own blood, as with wine.\
> Then all mankind will know that I, the LORD,\
> am your Savior and your Redeemer,\
> the Mighty One of Jacob."
> 
> **Footnotes:**
> 
> 8 c LXX **In the time of favor I heard You, and in the day of salvation I helped You;**  cited in 2 Corinthians 6:2\
> 10 d Cited in Revelation 7:16\
> 12 e **Or from the sea**\
> 12 f That is, a region in southern Egypt (from DSS); MT **the land of Sinim**\
> 17 g DSS; MT **Your sons**\
> 22 h Hebrew **in their bosom**\
> 24 i DSS, Syriac, and Vulgate (see also verse 25); MT **of the righteous**
