---
Title: 2024-08-19 - Diary
Type: Journal/Diary
Date-Created: 2024-08-19 09:11:36
Date-Modified: 2024-08-21 07:45:47
tags: []
journal: diary
journal-start-date: 2024-08-19
journal-end-date: 2024-08-19
journal-section: day
---
## Peter, Do You Love Me?

Jesus and Peter

15 When they had finished eating, Jesus asked Simon Peter, “Simon son of John, do you love Me more than these?”

“Yes, Lord,” he answered, “You know I love You.”

Jesus replied, “**Feed** My **lambs**.”

16 Jesus asked a second time, “Simon son of John, do you love Me?”

“Yes, Lord,” he answered, “You know I love You.”

Jesus told him, “**Shepherd** My **sheep**.”

17 Jesus asked a third time, “Simon son of John, do you love Me?” 

Peter was deeply hurt that Jesus had asked him a third time, “Do you love Me?” 

“Lord, You know all things,” he replied. “You know I love You.” 

Jesus said to him, “**Feed** My **sheep**.

18 Truly, truly, I tell you, when you were young, you dressed yourself and walked where you wanted; but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and someone else<sup>d</sup> will dress you and lead you where you do not want to go.” 19 Jesus said this to indicate the kind of death by which Peter would glorify God.

And after He had said this, He told him, “Follow Me.”

**Footnotes:**

18 d Or *others* 

---

## The Prayer-Promises of Jesus
#Prayer/Promises

#NT/John-14v12-14 #If-You/Ask-Anything/In-His-Name/He-Will-Do-It #If-You/Believe/In-Jesus/You-Will/Do-Greater-Things #If-You/Believe/In-Jesus/You-Will/Do-the-Works-He-Does #Jesus/Will-Do/Whatever-We-Ask/So-the-Father/May-Be-Glorified/In-the-Son

This counts as two; once in v 13, the other in v 14

> [!NOTE] **John 14:12-14**
> 
> 12 Truly, truly, I tell you, whoever believes in Me will also do the works that I am doing. He will do even greater things than these, because I am going to the Father. 13 And **I will do whatever you ask in My name, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son**. 14 **If you ask Me for anything in My name, I will do it.**

#NT/John-15v7 #If-You/Remain-in-Jesus/Ask/Whatever-You-Wish/It-Will-Be-Done-For-You #If/His-Words/Remain-in-You/Ask-Whatever-You-Wish/It-Will-Be-Done-For-You 

> [!NOTE] **John 15:7**
> 
> 7 If you remain in Me and My words remain in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you.

#NT/John-15v16 #Jesus/Chose/Me #Jesus/Appointed/Me/To-Go/And-Bear-Fruit/That-Will-Remain/So-That/Whatever-I-Ask-The-Father/in-His-Name/He-Will-Give-Me

> [!NOTE] **John 15:16**
> 
> You did not choose Me, but I chose you. And I  appointed you to go and bear fruit -- fruit that will remain -- so that whatever you ask the Father in My name, He will give you.
