---
Title: 2024-07-16 - Diary
Type: Journal/Diary
Date-Created: 2024 July 16, 08:37 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 17, 08:50 am
journal: diary
journal-start-date: 2024-07-16
journal-end-date: 2024-07-16
journal-section: day
---
## 2024-07-16 - Diary

Holy God, I am laying before You what is currently being impressed upon my heart with respect to my "enlargement and expansion", together with Your promise that "more are the children of the desolate woman than of her who has a husband."

Lord, You have put a desire in me to save trafficked and/or abused children. And praying for them when the notices of them being mission on fb is too late. So, please, teach me how to efficiently and effectually pray for these before it is too late.  

Awhile back, I had begun praying that You would bring them to me to care for and raise up in You. At that time, I also realized that I would need helpers, and at that time I believed those would be Veterans, and possibly redeemed former gang members. I also had begun asking You for a compound, a building … a means of being able to support these children.  

I also realize that I am totally incapable of making this happen. I have no means; I have no contacts; I have NOTHING to bring this to fruition.

However, YOU DO! And if this desire of my heart is from You, then I expect You to provide everything that is required. I trust You to open the doors of heaven to pour out the required funds, buildings / compounds, helpers, and children and any other requiring healing and ministry.

I lay this before You, Lord … if it is from You, then You will do it … in Your own time … in Your own way … so I leave it with You.

You remind me of the need to "lay hold of You" until I receive. I have no problem with that, Lord. What I require first, is confirmation that this 'dream' or 'vision' is from You; that this is what You have called me to do; that it is not a vain imagination of my own mind.  

Please, Holy Spirit, grant me revelation, knowledge, wisdom, understanding, insight, discernment, illumination, and inspiration. Please, open the treasuries of Your knowledge which are hidden in You where I, too, am hidden. Open my eyes and ears; open my heart; open my understanding; and cause me to not only have a clean heart, but to have a steadfast spirit within me as well.  

---

> **Zephaniah 3**
> 
> [1] Woe to the city of oppressors,  
> rebellious and defiled! 
> 
> [2] She heeded no voice;  
> she accepted no correction.  
> She does not trust in the LORD;  
> she has not drawn near to her God. 
> 
> [3] Her princes are roaring lions;  
> her judges are evening wolves,  
> leaving nothing for the morning. 
> 
> [4] Her prophets are reckless,  
> faithless men.  
> Her priests profane the sanctuary;  
> they do violence to the law. 
> 
> [5] The LORD within her is righteous;  
> He does no wrong.  
> He applies His justice morning by morning;  
> He does not fail at dawn,  
> yet the unjust know no shame. 
> 
> [6] "I have cut off the nations;  
> their corner towers are destroyed.  
> I have made their streets deserted  
> with no one to pass through.  
> **Their cities are laid waste,**  
> **with no man, no inhabitant.** 
> 
> [7] I said, 'Surely you will fear Me  
> and accept correction.'  
> Then her dwelling place would not be cut off  
> despite all for which I punished her.  
> But they rose early  
> to corrupt all their deeds. 
> 
>  **[8] Therefore wait for Me,"**  
> **declares the LORD,**  
> **"until the day**  
> **I rise to testify. (LXX and Syriac; Hebrew 'rise to plunder')**  
> For My decision is to gather nations,  
> to assemble kingdoms,  
> to pour out upon them My indignation—  
> all My burning anger.  
> For all the earth will be consumed  
> by the fire of My jealousy. 
> 
> [9] For then I will restore  
> pure lips to the peoples,  
> that all may call upon the name of the LORD  
> and serve Him shoulder to shoulder. 
> 
> [10] From beyond the rivers of Cush  
> My worshipers, **My scattered people,**  
> **will bring Me an offering.** 
> 
> [11] **On that day you will not be put to shame**  
> **for any of the deeds**  
> **by which you have transgressed against Me.**  
> For then I will remove from among you  
> those who rejoice in their pride,  
> and you will never again be haughty  
> on My holy mountain. 
> 
> [12] But I will leave within you a meek and humble people,  
> and they will trust in the name of the LORD. 
> 
> [13] The remnant of Israel  
> will no longer do wrong or speak lies,  
> nor will a deceitful tongue  
> be found in their mouths.  
> But they will feed and lie down,  
> with no one to make them tremble." 
> 
> [14] Sing for joy, O Daughter of Zion;  
> shout aloud, O Israel!  
> Be glad and rejoice with all your heart,  
> O Daughter of Jerusalem! 
> 
>  **[15] The LORD has taken away your punishment;**  
> **He has turned back your enemy.**  
> Israel's King, the LORD, is among you;  
> **no longer will you fear any harm.** 
> 
> [16] **On that day** they will say to Jerusalem:  
> "Do not fear, O Zion;  
> do not let your hands fall limp. 
> 
> [17] The LORD your God is among you;  
> He is mighty to save.  
> He will rejoice over you with gladness;  
> He will quiet you with His love;  
> He will rejoice over you with singing." 
> 
> [18] "I will gather those among you who grieve  
> over the appointed feasts,  
> **so that you will no longer suffer reproach.** 
> 
> [19] Behold, **at that time**,  
> I will deal with **all** who afflict you.  
> **I will save the lame**  
> **and gather the scattered**;  
> and I will appoint praise and fame  
> for the disgraced throughout the earth. 
> 
> [20] **At that time** I will bring you in;  
> yes, **at that time** I will gather you.  
> For I will give you fame and praise  
> among all the peoples of the earth  
> when I restore your captives  
> before your very eyes,"

Okay, Lord … this coincides with Isaiah 54

> Isaiah 54
> 
> [1] "Shout for joy, O barren woman,  
> who bears no children;  
> break forth in song and cry aloud,  
> you who have never travailed;  
> because more are the children of the desolate woman  
> than of her who has a husband," 
> 
> [2] "Enlarge the site of your tent,  
> stretch out the curtains of your dwellings,  
> do not hold back.  
> Lengthen your ropes  
> and drive your stakes in deep. 
> 
> [3] For you will spread out to the right and left;  
> **your descendants will dispossess the nations**  
> **and inhabit the desolate cities.** 
> 
>  **[4] Do not be afraid, for you will not be put to shame;**  
> **do not be intimidated, for you will not be humiliated.**  
> **For you will forget the shame of your youth**  
> **and will remember no more the reproach of your widowhood.** 
> 
> [5] For your husband is your Maker—  
> the LORD of Hosts is His name—  
> the Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer;  
> He is called the God of all the earth. 
> 
>  **[6] For the LORD has called you back,**  
> **like a wife deserted and wounded in spirit,**  
> **like the rejected wife of one's youth,"**  
> **says your God.** 
> 
>  **[7] "For a brief moment I forsook you,**  
> **but with great compassion I will bring you back.** 
> 
>  **[8] In a surge of anger**  
> **I hid My face from you for a moment,**  
> **but with everlasting kindness I will have compassion on you,"**  
> **says the LORD your Redeemer.** 
> 
> [9] "For to Me this is like the days of Noah,  
> when I swore that the waters of Noah  
> would never again cover the earth.  
> **So I have sworn that I will not be angry with you**  
> **or rebuke you.** 
> 
> [10] Though the mountains may be removed  
> and the hills may be shaken,  
> My loving devotion will not depart from you,  
> and My covenant of peace will not be broken,"  
> says the LORD, who has compassion on you. 
> 
> [11] "O afflicted city, lashed by storms,  
> without solace,  
> surely I will set your stones in antimony  
> and lay your foundations with sapphires. 
> 
> [12] I will make your pinnacles of rubies,  
> your gates of sparkling jewels,  
> and all your walls of precious stones. 
> 
>  **[13] Then all your sons will be taught by the LORD,**  
> **and great will be their prosperity.** 
> 
>  **[14] In righteousness you will be established,**  
> **far from oppression,**  
> **for you will have no fear.**  
> **Terror will be far removed,**  
> **for it will not come near you.** 
> 
>  **[15] If anyone attacks you, it is not from Me;**  
> **whoever assails you will fall before you.** 
> 
> [16] Behold, I have created the craftsman  
> who fans the coals into flame  
> and forges a weapon fit for its task;  
> and I have created the destroyer  
> to wreak havoc. 
> 
>  **[17] No weapon formed against you shall prosper,**  
> **and you will refute every tongue that accuses you.**  
> **This is the heritage of the servants of the LORD,**  
> **and their vindication is from Me,"**

From these verses it is my understanding that You are saying to wait upon Your timing, because my descendants will dispossess the nations and inhabit the desolate cities … because all the earth will be consumed by the fire of Your jealousy. And **at that time** You will bring us in; and **at that time** You will gather us … when You restore the captives.  

As with today's Bible reading, You are reiterating that Your people are going to be scattered because of persecution. But You will bring them back at the right time.

> **Genesis 32:24-26**
> 
> 24 So Jacob was left all alone, and there a man wrestled with him until daybreak.
> 
> 25 When the man saw that he could not over power Jacob, he struck the socket of Jacob's hip and dislocated it as they wrestled.
> 
> 26 Then the man said, "Let me go, for it is daybreak."  
> But Jacob replied, "**I will not let you go unless you bless me."

So, I am taking this as a confirmation. And thus, I will begin as of now to 'lay hold of You' until these things are fulfilled … for the sake of my descendants and others whom You will send to me to nurture, heal, deliver, and teach.  

---

> **Isaiah 64:7**
> 
> 7 No one calls on Your name  
> or strives to take hold of You.  
> For you have hidden Your face from us  
> and delivered us into the hand of our iniquity.
