---
Title: 2024-07-08 - Diary
Type: Journal/Diary
Date-Created: 2024 July 08, 02:00 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 23, 02:45 pm
journal: diary
journal-start-date: 2024-07-08
journal-end-date: 2024-07-08
journal-section: day
---
## 2024-07-08 - Diary

#NT/2-Corinthians-48-12-ULB  
#Suffering  
#Jesus/Death/Carried/in-Our-Bodies  
#Jesus/Life/Shown/in-Our-Bodies

> [!example] **2 Corinthians 4:8-12 ULB**
> 
> 8 We are afflicted in every way, but not overwhelmed. We are perplexed but not filled with despair. 
> 
> 9 We are persecuted but not forsaken. We are struck down but not destroyed. 
> 
> 10 We always carry in our body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus also may be shown in our bodies. 
> 
> 11 We who are alive are always carrying around in our body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may be shown in our body. 
> 
> 12 So death is at work in us, but life is at work in you.

#NT/2-Timothy-2v3-4-Rotherham  
#Suffering/As-A-Soldier-of-Christ

> [!example] **2 Timothy 2:3-4 Rotherham**
> 
> 3 Take thy part in suffering hardship, as a brave soldier of Christ Jesus:— 
> 
> 4 No one that is serving as a soldier, entangleth himself with the matters of his livelihood, that he may please him that hath summoned him to serve as a soldier;

#OT/Exodus-14v14-ULB  
#God/Fights/For-Me  
#Promise/God/Fights/For-Me  
#Command/Just-Stand-Still

> [!example] **Exodus 14:14 ULB**
> 
> 4 Yahweh will fight for you, and you will only have to stand still."

#NT/Philippians-4v19  
#God/Supplies/All-Needs  
#Promise/All-Needs-Supplied

> [!example] **Philippians 4:19**
> 
> 19 And my God will supply all your needs according to His glorious riches in Christ Jesus.

- SACRIFICIAL LIVING 

#OT/Isaiah-45v22-24  
#God/Word/Not-Revoked  
#In-God/Righetousness  
#In-God/Strength

> [!example] **Isaiah 45:22-24**
> 
> 23 By Myself I have sworn;  truth has gone out from My mouth,  a word that will not be revoked:  Every knee will bow before Me,  every tongue will swear allegiance.   
> 
> 24 Surely they will say of Me,  'In the LORD alone are righteousness and strength.'"  
> 
> 24 Surely they will say of Me,  'In the LORD alone are righteousness and strength.'"

#OT/Isaiah-45v1-7  
#God/Goes-Before  
#God/Gives/The-Treasures-of-Darkness  
#God/Gives/Hidden-Riches/in-Secret-Places  
#God/Calls/Me-By-Name  
#God/Chooses/Me  
#God/Gives/A-Title-of-Honor  
#God/Equips/For-Battle  
#God/Forms/the-Light  
#God/Creates/the-Darkness  
#God/Brings-Prosperity  
#God/Creates/Calamity

> [!example] **Isaiah 45:2-7**
> 
> 2 "I will go before you and level the mountains;   I will break down the gates of bronze  and cut through the bars of iron.  
> 
> 3 I will give you the treasures of darkness  and the riches hidden in secret places,  so that you may know that I am the LORD,  the God of Israel, who calls you by name.  
> 
> 4 For the sake of Jacob My servant  and Israel My chosen one,  I call you by name;  I have given you a title of honor,  though you have not known Me.
> 
> 5 I am the LORD, and there is no other;  there is no God but Me.  I will equip you for battle,  though you have not known Me,  
> 
> 6 so that all may know,  from where the sun rises to where it sets,  that there is none but Me;  I am the LORD, and there is no other.  
> 
> 7 I form the light and create the darkness;  I bring prosperity and create calamity.  I, the LORD, do all these things.

- SEPARATE YOURSELF

---

Yesterday, I told You about …

- how I'm feeling trapped; like I am in prison
	- in relationships
		- not one single solitary 'fruitful' relationship
		- total isolation; stronger and more intense than ever
		- in bondage both to my depression as well as Mark's; it has grown far more oppressive over all these years 
	- in my own body
		- physical issues
		- mental / emotional issues
	- in my location
	- I have nothing left to give anymore
		- in this place
		- in my relationships
			- particularly Mark's depression
			- yet, unless You do something in me, I can't live w/o him; he does EVERYTHING for me
- I have believed for many years now that since I left my parents home that I'm not supposed to be in Ohio any more; the only reason I'm still here is because of Mark
- I've had opportunities to leave w/o him, but each time You made it clear that You wanted me to stay for his sake; even though this is not where we are supposed to be
	- I have repeatedly said to You that I am trusting You to put me (us?) exactly where You want me to be

Then today, You bring this across my path …

#Prophecy/God-is-Moving-You/Into-a-Place/Where-You-Belong  
#YouTube-Creator/Alwyn-Uys/God-is/Moving-You/Where-You-Belong  
**Source** - [God is moving you into a place where you belong](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-1DwsSvyz_A)

- God is moving His people into place
	- locationally 
		- or spiritually 
		- or both?
- "Seasons are shifting and I'll make a quick work of it"
	- a change happening in the Spirit
	- God is pruning dead branches (relationships?) 
		- --> I immediately thought of Cheryl and how God has caused me to end this relationship because it was no longer producing fruit, let alone good fruit.
		- pruning the dead branches off so that fruit can be borne
- Chessboard
	- God is moving His people strategically into the right position
		- locationally AND spiritually
		- CHECKMATE
			- the enemy cant see what is coming

Yes, Lord - IF this is Your Word to me - PLEASE confirm it to me two more times (in the mouth of two or three witnesses …); PLEASE may it be perfectly clear and plain and not just wishful thinking on my part.

As I start to pray, You remind me that You've been causing my spirit to continually sing "Here Am I Lord"; You know my heart, Lord … You know that it has always been the desire of my heart to go wherever You want me to be; to do whatever You want me to do; to say whatever You want me to say … 

And so I lay my life down once again at Your feet … and I cry out to You … Here Am I Lord … Be it unto me according to Your Word. Not my will be done, but Thy will be done here on this earth, and here in my life, as it is in heaven.

---

Another thing I've been asking You … when is it going to be time to bring me out of Your quiver? When is it going to be my time?

#Question/When/Is-It-My-Time  
#YouTube-Creator/Alwyn-Uys/When-is-it-My-Time  
**Source** - [You've been asking the Lord: "When is it my time?"](https://www.youtube.com/@AlwynUys)

- A day of expectation
	- healing
	- marriage
	- ministry
- Have those things become idols? Have I set their priority above You and what You want to do and when and with who?
- Will I be okay if none of these things happen? Will I still serve You?
	- Father, I honestly believe that I've been doing this since You sent me home to my family in the mid '80s
	- I hear You ask me …
		- Are you giving up after all these years of unfulfillment of those things I have promised you?
	- Oh Lord, God … I honestly don't know … but it's definitely possible … as I've shared with You multiple times … I'm tired and I feel like I don't have anything more left to give … I don't see any good fruit come from anything I've done these past many, many years. You know I feel like my life has been wasted … mostly due to my own sin and weakness, I know … and I'm sorely ashamed of all of this. And now … look at my physical condition … can You yet use me even if I'm never healed? Is it possible that this broken down body can still bring fruit forth for Your glory? You remind me of a previous "word" …
	

#YouTube-Creator/Alwyn-Uys/God/Woke-Me-Up/at-3-33am  
**Source** - <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rl6s8uRTZTY>

#NT/1-Corinthians-15v36  
#Sow/Life/From-Death 

> [!example] **1 Corinthians 15:36**  
> You fool! **What you sow does not come to life unless it dies.** 

#Sow/Your-Past/It-Must-Die  
**Put away the past; let it die**  

#OT/Jeremiah-33v3  
#Call/To-God/He-Will-Answer  
#God/Shows/Great-Unsearchable-Unknown-Things

> [!example] **Jeremiah 33:3**
> 
> 3 Call to Me, and I will answer and show you great and unsearchable things you do not know.

Okay, Lord … Here Am I … calling out with my whole heart, mind, soul and being … show me Your great and unsearchable things that I do not know … Open my eyes, both physically and spiritually … that I might understand, know and discern what it is You are doing and want to do. Open my ears, both physically and spiritually … that I might hear You and discern between Your voice from all others. Create in me a CLEAN heart, O God … and renew a RIGHT spirit within me … Cast me not away from Thy Presence O Lord … And take not Thy Holy Spirit from me … Restore unto me the joy of Thy Salvation … and renew a RIGHT spirit within me. Please …. have mercy upon me, a wretched sinner, O God … Please … have mercy upon me!

Back to the "When Is It My Time?" video …

- When things happen for you, they're going to happen so fast that your head is going to spin.  

#OT/Amos-9v13-15  
#God/Gives/Restoration  
#God/Plants/In-Promised-Land

> [!example] **Amos 9:13-15**
> 
> 13 "Behold, the days are coming,"  
> declares the LORD,  
> "when the plowman will overtake the reaper  
> and the treader of grapes, the sower of seed.  
> The mountains will drip with sweet wine,  
> with which all the hills will flow.
> 
> 14 I will restore My people Israel from captivity;  
> they will rebuild and inhabit the ruined cities.  
> They will plant vineyards and drink their wine;  
> they will make gardens and eat their fruit.
> 
> 15 I will firmly plant them in their own land,  
> never again to be uprooted  
> from the land that I have given them,"  
> says the LORD your God.

---

**Source** - [Unusual Blessings Heading Your Way](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fnY0BPDPMlM)

#NT/Matthew-14v13-20  
#Brokenness/Produces-Blessing  
#Blessing/In-The-Brokenness

**Matthew 14:13-20**

Jesus took the little boy's lunch of 5 loaves of bread and two fish, He **spoke a blessing**, then broke it and fed the 5000+ who all ate **and were satisfied**. There were also 12 baskets of leftovers … one for each apostle who distributed the broken food to the masses. All for the glory of God - not of man.

- There is blessing in the breaking …
	- Because of the breaking, new wind and new oil will pour forth into your life
- What do you have in your hand that you can present to Me?  
	- Present whatever you have to the Lord so that He can bless it, and then break it, not just for your blessing and benefit, but for the benefit and blessing of others.
		- finances
		- relationships
		- situations

---

**Source** - [Prayer for your breakthrough](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ILT7_ey8SM)

#OT/Isaiah-54v17  
#Promise/No-Weapon-Formed/Can-Prosper  
#Promise/Every-Accusing-Tongue/Refuted  
#Servants/Of-God/Have-an-Heritage  
#God/Gives/Vindication/To-His-Servants

> [!example] **Isaiah 54:17**
> 
> 17 No weapon formed against you shall prosper,  
and you will refute every tongue that accuses you.  
This is the heritage of the servants of the LORD,  
and their vindication is from Me,"

#OT/Zechariah-2v5  
#God/A-Wall-of-Fire  
#God/The-Glory-Within

> [!example] **Zechariah 2:5**  
> 5 For I will be a wall of fire around it, declares the LORD, and I will be the glory within it.' "

#OT/Zechariah-2v8-9  
#I-Am/The-Apple-Of-His-Eye  
#God/Enemies/Become-Plunder/To-Their-Own-Servants

> [!example] **Zechariah 2:8-9**  
> 8 For this is what the LORD of Hosts says: "After His Glory has sent Me against the nations that have plundered you—for whoever touches you touches the apple of His eye— 
> 
> 9 I will surely wave My hand over them, so that they will become plunder for their own servants. Then you will know that the LORD of Hosts has sent Me."

#OT/Proverbs-10v11  
#God/Enriches/His-Blessing  
#God/Adds-No-Sorrow/To-His-Blessing

> [!example] **Proverbs 10:11**  
> 22 The blessing of the LORD enriches,  
> and He adds no sorrow to it.

#NT/Matthew-6v26  
#I-Am/Valuable/To-The-Father

> [!example] **Matthew 6:26**
> 
> 26 Look at the birds of the air: They do not sow or reap or gather into barns—and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not much more valuable than they?

#NT/Ephesians-6v10  
#Command/Be-Strong/In-The-Lord  
#Command/Be-Strong/In-His-Mighty-Power

> [!example] **Ephesians 6:10**  
> 10 Finally, be strong in the Lord and in His mighty power.

---
