---
Title: 2024-08-06 - Diary
Type: Journal/Diary
Date-Created: 2024 August 06, 08:51 am
Date-Modified: 2024 August 06, 11:54 am
journal: diary
journal-start-date: 2024-08-06
journal-end-date: 2024-08-06
journal-section: day
---
## 2024-08-06 - Diary

- Yet another prophetic confirmation?  
#Prophecy/Confirmation/In-August-Arise-Move-From-Your-Holding-Position  
**SOURCE** - [I HEARD THE LORD SAY ‘IN AUGUST ARISE! MOVE FROM YOUR HOLDING POSITION’ – Lana Vawser Ministries](https://lanavawser.com/i-heard-the-lord-say-in-august-arise-move-from-your-holding-position/)

> I HEARD THE LORD SAY 'IN AUGUST ARISE! MOVE FROM YOUR HOLDING POSITION'
> 
> August 1, 2024
> 
> Recently, I heard the Lord say, 'In August ARISE! Move from your holding position.' I saw a shuffling and a shaking taking place, things beginning to move and be removed by the hand of the Lord and I saw many in the 'wings of waiting.'
> 
> As we moved into August, I saw an august rush of His fierce wind blow, and it began to shake and shift things: and suddenly those that were in the 'wings of waiting' were being called upon. I then heard the Lord say:
> 
> 'Do not be perturbed by what your eyes see in August. For great shall be the moving and the shaking. Great shall be the rearranging. Hear My Word to you: look not to what is being shaken in August, but look to what is being REARRANGED in August. For I am going to uproot, expose and uncover in August to bring a further alignment in the lives of My people. It's My divine order. It's My divine alignment. I am going to expose in deeper ways alignments that are hindering assignments in August, and you must pay attention to My voice. You must pay attention to where I am leading and what I am revealing, and you must be prepared to move with the rearranging that I will do by My hand.
> 
> 'I say unto you, that in August **you will be called upon to step into places that I have been preparing you for**. When the doors open and the whistle blows, **you must move at My command**. **Let not fear or intimidation stop you from stepping into where I am calling you and calling you to move into. KNOW that I have prepared you for such a time as this.**
> 
> 'I have been speaking to many of you about the REARRANGE that is coming by My hand, and so as it happens, it will not take you by surprise. There will be **a supernatural displacement** and appointment happening all at the same time in August. It's time to step up and to engage in all that I am speaking and doing and move at the motion of My hand.
> 
> 'For there will be sudden turns that will take place in August. There will be new avenues that are going to open up in August. There will be a branching out into new avenues by My hand in August, where many of you will begin to move into new assignments to bring forth the greater divine order that I am bringing forth in this hour.
> 
> 'For many of you have been in the secret place with Me, carrying divine intel and discernment of things that I have been revealing and showing you of things to come. MUCH of these things will begin to manifest in August. You must not be carried away by emotion as these things begin to be revealed and removed, as these things begin to be moved and shaken, but know that I am making room for My divine order to come forth. I am clearing, shaking, moving and shifting for a greater outpouring of My Spirit. I am bringing forth My divine order.
> 
> 'In August, watch as I will call you to ascend into greater insight in your assignments. I am going to further clarify assignments in this hour and **you will see many pieces come together in August**. There will be a great convergence of things that I have been revealing to you and where I am calling you to arise and stand, and you will begin to see this convergence bring a further clarity to you in what I am calling you to do and step into. For many of you, there will be 'on the job training' in August as you step into these new avenues. You have been prepared for this time, but you must rely upon My Spirit and My training and leading in moving and operating in these new ways with Me. For many will look at the avenues in August and be intimidated by their unfamiliarity, but I say unto you: remember, **I am with you, I have called you and you have been anointed for this hour.**
> 
> 'In August, **you will arrive and no longer be pushed aside**. Where many of you have felt like you have been pushed aside, in August, you will arrive at some divine appointments that I have for you to move you into the new assignments that are before you.
> 
> 'Watch for new expressions in August, birthed out of My heart. Watch as divine order is manifested in greater ways — as My expressions and original designs and blueprints begin to manifest in greater ways — especially in areas where there have been things built on sand and things that have been out of alignment. Can you hear the sound of the thundering of My divine order being established in the earth? August will see an acceleration of alignment of My divine order. I am bringing it into being and bringing it to pass. It's time for the revealing of what is built upon Me as the Rock of the Ages. **The shifting of structures will take place** in August and beyond **to make room for an outpouring of My Spirit**. Watch closely to see the areas that I suddenly re-align.
> 
> 'Hear what I am speaking to you, My people: as August brings a greater acceleration of divine order, do not be slow to move on the re-alignments. Make sure to engage with My re-alignments. Make sure to move with My assignments and the establishing of My divine order. Be not caught up in your own understanding, but follow Me closely (Proverbs 3:5-6). Much of what I am re-aligning and bringing order to in August and beyond will position you for what I will do in 5785 (Jewish new year).
> 
> 'Pay attention to the blueprints and the instructions that I have released to you and will unfold to you in August. For these blueprints and instructions are My wisdom and My leading to help you in the re-arranging that will take place. For in the blueprints and the instructions will come the avenues for the new and unexplored places that I am leading you into.'

---

## God Is …

#God/Pillar/of-Fire/By-Night #God/Pillar/of-Cloud/By-Day 

#OT/Exodus-13v20-22

> [!example] **Exodus 13:20-22**
> 
> 20 They set out from Succoth and camped at Etham on the edge of the wilderness.
> 
> 21 And the LORD went before them in a pillar of cloud to guide their way by day, and in a pillar of fire to give them light by night, so that they could travel by day or night.
> 
> 22 Neither the pillar of cloud by day nor the pillar of fire by night left its place before the people.

#OT/Exodus-14v13-14

> [!example] **Exodus 14:13-14**
> 
> 13 But Moses told the people, "Do not be afraid. Stand firm and you will see the LORD's salvation, which He will accomplish for you today; for the Egyptians you see today, you will never see again.
> 
> 14 The LORD will fight for you; you need only to be still.

#Hebrew/H2790-charash

- *need only to be still - H2790 -charash *
	- to cut in, plough, engrave, devise
	- to be silent, be dumb, be speechless, be deaf
	- to remain silent

#OT/Exodus-14v19-20

> [!example] **Exodus 14:19-20**
> 
> 19 And the angel of God, who had gone before the camp of Israel, withdrew and went behind them. The pillar of cloud also moved from before them and stood behind them,
> 
> 20 so that it came between the camps of Egypt and Israel. The could was there in the darkness, but it lit up the night. So all night long neither camp went near the other.

#OT/Exodus-14v24-25

> [!example] **Exodus 14:24-25**
> 
> 24 At morning watch, however, the LORD looked down on the army of the Egyptians from the pillar of fire and cloud, and He threw their camp into confusion.
> 
> 25 He caused their chariot wheels to wobble, so that they had difficulty driving. "Let us flee from the Israelites," said the Egyptians, "for the LORD is fighting for them against Egypt."

#God/Rear-Guard

#OT/Isaiah-45v1-7 

> [!example] **Isaiah 45:1-7**
> 
> 1 This is what the LORD says to Cyrus His anointed,  
> whose right hand I have grasped  
> to subdue nations before him,  
> to disarm kings,  
> to open the doors before him,  
> so that the gates will not be shut:
> 
> 2"I will go before you  
> and level the mountains;  
> I will break down the gates of bronze  
> and cut through the bars of iron.
> 
> 3 I will give you the treasures of darkness  
> and the riches hidden in secret places,  
> so that you may know that I am the LORD,  
> the God of Israel, who calls you by name.
> 
> 4 For the sake of Jacob My servant  
> and Israel My chosen one,  
> I call you by name;  
> I have given you a title of honor,  
> though you have not known Me.
> 
> 5 I am the LORD, and there is no other;  
> there is no God but Me.  
> I will equip you for battle,  
> though you have not known Me,
> 
> 6 so that all may know,  
> from where the sun rises to where it sets,  
> that there is none but Me;  
> I am the LORD, and there is no other.
> 
> 7 I form the light and create the darkness;  
> I bring prosperity and create calamity.  
> I, the LORD, do all these things

#OT/Isaiah-52v11-12 

> [!example] **Isaiah 52:11-12**
> 
> 11 Depart, depart, go out from there! Touch no unclean thing; come out from it, purify yourselves, you who carry the vessels of the LORD.
> 
> 12 **For you will not leave in a hurry nor flee in haste, for the LORD goes before you, and the God of Israel is your rear guard.**
