---
Title: 2024-07-18 - Diary
Type: Journal/Diary
Date-Created: 2024 July 18, 01:30 pm
Date-Modified: 2024 July 18, 05:50 pm
journal: diary
journal-start-date: 2024-07-18
journal-end-date: 2024-07-18
journal-section: day
---
## 2024-07-18 - Diary

A lot has been covered today. I hope I can remember everything.

- Emphasis on holiness and righteousness
	- understanding and acknowledging that I cannot live this in my own strength, but rather that it is wholly dependent upon receiving them by, and through, Jesus Christ.
- Victory **is** possible
	- again, it all comes by, and through, Christ Jesus because there is nothing in me that is victorious
- **MORE** than a conqueror
	- same as the previous two - wholly dependent upon my laying hold of them and receiving them from Christ Jesus because it is impossible in, and through, me.

The first half of Hosea 2 reflects on the unfaithfulness and idolatry of my previous walk with God.  
The second half coincides with Isaiah 54 and Zephaniah 3

> [!example] **Hosea 2:14-23**
> 
> [14] "Therefore, behold, I will allure her  
> **and lead her to the wilderness (being hidden in His quiver)**,  
> and speak to her tenderly (a place of training, refining, and character building). 
> 
> [15] There **I will give back** her vineyards  
> and make the Valley of Achor (trouble)  
> into **a gateway** of hope.  
> There she will respond as she did  
> in the days of her youth,  
> as in the day she came up out of Egypt. 
> 
> [16] **In that day**,"  
> declares the LORD,  
> "**you will call Me 'my Husband (as in Isaiah 54)**,'  
> and no longer call Me 'my Master.' 
> 
> [17] For I will remove from her lips the names of the Baals;  
> no longer will their names be invoked. 
> 
> [18] **On that day** I will make a covenant for them  
> with the beasts of the field and the birds of the air  
> and the creatures that crawl on the ground.  
> And I will abolish bow and sword  
> and weapons of war in the land (Isaiah 54 - no weapon formed …),  
> and will make them lie down in safety. 
> 
> [19] So **I will betroth you to Me forever**;  
> I will betroth you **in righteousness and justice**,  
> **in loving devotion and compassion** (Forms of the Hebrew `chesed` are translated here and in most cases throughout the Scriptures as `loving devotion`; the range of meaning includes `love, goodness, kindess, faithfulness,` and `mercy`, as well as `loyalty to a covenant`.. 
> 
> [20] And **I will betroth you in faithfulness,**  
> **and you will know the LORD**." 
> 
> [21] "**On that day** I will respond—"  
> declares the LORD—  
> "I will respond to the heavens,  
> and they will respond to the earth. 
> 
> [22] And the earth will respond to the grain,  
> to the new wine and oil,  
> and they will respond to Jezreel (God sows). 
> 
> [23] And I **will sow her as My own** in the land,  
> and I will have compassion on 'No Compassion. (Hebrew **`Lo-ruhamah`; LXX `I will love her who was not loved`**  
> I will say to those called 'Not My People,'  
> 'You are My people,'  
> and they will say,  
> 'You are my God.'"

O Lord God … You know that the enemy has been taunting me the past two days with the fact that my own mother never loved me. Nor have I been truly loved by anyone else. I have been rejected by everyone … except You. This theme is repeated in Isaiah 54, Zephaniah 3, and now Hosea 2.  

You are so very gracious to me … I am almost overwhelmed. Holy Spirit, I beg of You to help to to believe, and receive, God's love for me. Help me never to doubt it, or minimize it. Please enlarge the capacity of my faith to lay hold of God's love to me an for me. Please enlarge my ability to believe it, and rely upon it.  

Thank You, Holy God. Thank You.

---

Is there anything else that You want to accomplish today? Is there something that You would have me to do for You?  

Holy Spirit, please increase my capacity to sit, wait, and listen for You, the Father, and/or my Beloved Jesus. Please, help me to recognize when You speak; to discern You from every other voice.  

Please - help me to know You more intimately; increase my ability to lay hold of Jesus' holiness, righteousness, faithfulness, obedience, victory. O my Holy God … with all that is within me, I take hold of You until these things are manifested fully in me so that I would be found to be pleasing in Your sight. I long with my entire being to please You; to bring You glory, honor, praise and thanksgiving!  

Oh my Blessed Lord - for in this way, I will be able to Love You in the same way that You Love me … the very thing I've been praying for so many years.  

Here am I, Lord … please do a thorough work in me; whatever it takes; have Your will and Your way until the work is complete. I need You … I require You, Lord.
