---
Title: 2024-07-29 - Diary
Type: Journal/Diary
Date-Created: 2024 July 29, 05:54 am
Date-Modified: 2024 August 01, 09:11 am
journal: diary
journal-start-date: 2024-07-29
journal-end-date: 2024-07-29
journal-section: day
---
## 2024-07-29 - Diary

About half of the main translations do not have the second phrase in the following verse.

#NT/Matthew-22v14

> [!example] **Matthew 22:14**
> 
> 14 **For many are called, but few chosen.**

#Greek/G2822-klétos

- *called - G2822 - klétos*
	- called
	- **HELPS Word-studies**
		- Cognate: 2822 klētós – literally, "called" (derived from 2564/kaleō, "to call, summon"). See 2821 (klēsis).
		- In the NT, 2822 /klētós ("divinely called") focuses on God's general call – i.e. the call (invitation) He gives to **all** people, so **all** can receive His salvation. God desires every person to call out to Him and receive His salvation (1 Tim 2:4,5). "Unfortunately, many choose not to – but all can; all don't but all can call out to God for His mercy (not just 'some')" (G. Archer). See 2821 /klēsis ("calling").

#Greek/G1588-eklektos

- *chosen - G1588 - eklektos*
	- select, by impl. favorite; the elect (as in Matthew 24:22,24,31 *et.al.*)
	- **HELPS Word-studies**
		- Cognate: 1588 eklektós (an adjective, derived from 1586 /eklégomai, "to select, choose," also used as a substantive/noun) – properly, selected (chosen from, out of), especially as a deeply personal choice – literally "chosen, out of a personal preference (intention)." See 1586 (eklegomai).
		- Typically, 1588 /eklektós ("select, chosen") describes people who choose to follow the Lord, i.e. become God's choice by freely receiving faith (4102 /pístis) from Him. Accordingly, these two terms are directly connected (see Tit 1:1; Lk 18:7,8).


---

#NT/Luke-18v7-8

> [!example] **Luke 18:7-8**
> 
> 7 Will not God bring about justice for His elect who cry out to Him day and night? Will He continue to defer their help?
> 
> 8 I tell you, He will promptly carry out justice on their behalf. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will He find faith on earth?

#Greek/G1557-ekdikésis

- *justice - G1557 - ekdikésis*
	- vengeance, vindication
	- **HELPS Word-studies**
		- 1557 ekdíkēsis (a feminine noun derived from 1537 /ek, "out from and to" and 1349 /díkē, "justice, judge") – properly, judgment which fully executes the core-values (standards) of the particular judge, i.e. extending from the inner-person of the judge to its out-come (outcome).

---

#OT/2-Kings-24v3-4 #God/Unwilling/to-Forgive/Shedding-of-Innocent-Blood 

> [!example] **2 Kings 24:3-4**
> 
> 3 Surely this happened to Judah at the LORD's command, to remove them from His presence because of the sins of Manasseh and all tht he had done,
> 
> 4 and also for the innocent blood he had shed. **For he had filled Jerusalem with innocent blood, and the LORD was unwilling to forgive.**

---
