---
Title: 2024-08-08 - Diary
Type: Journal/Diary
Date-Created: 2024 August 08, 01:39 am
Date-Modified: 2024 August 08, 09:26 am
journal: diary
journal-start-date: 2024-08-08
journal-end-date: 2024-08-08
journal-section: day
---
## 2024-08-08 - Diary

### God Will Make A Way

#Lyrics/God-Will-Make-A-Way  
#Promise/God/Will-Make/A-Way/Where-There-Seems-To-Be-No-Way  
#Promise/God/Will-Make/A-Way/in-the-Wilderness #Promise/God/Will-Make/Streams/in-the-Desert 

> God will make a way  
> Where there seems to be no way  
> He works in ways we cannot see  
> He will make a way for me  
> 
> He will be my guide  
> Hold me closely to His side  
> With love and strength for each new day  
> He will make a way  
> He will make a way  
> 
> God will make a way  
> Where there seems to be no way  
> He works in ways we cannot see  
> He will make a way for me  
> 
> He will be my guide  
> Hold me closely to His side  
> With love and strength for each new day  
> He will make a way  
> He will make a way  
> 
> By a roadway in the wilderness  
> He'll lead me  
> Rivers in the desert will I see  
> Heaven and earth will fade  
> But His Word will still remain  
> He will do something new today  

### A Way in the Wilderness

#OT/Isaiah-43v14-21

> [!note] **Isaiah 43:14-21**
> 
> 14 Thus says the LORD your Redeemer,  
> the Holy One of Israel;  
> "For your sake, I wills end to Babylon  
> and bring them all as fugitives,  
> even the Chaldeans,  
> in the ships in which they rejoice.
> 
> 15 I am the LORD, your Holy One,  
> the Creator of Israel, and your King."
> 
> 16 Thus says the LORD, who makes a way in the sea  
> and a path through the surging waters,  
> 17 who brings out the chariots and horses,  
> the armies and warriors together,  
> to lie down, never to rise again;
> 
> 18 "Do not call to mind the former things;  
> pay no attention to the things of old.
> 
> 19 Behold, I am about to do something new;  
> even ow it is coming. Do you not see it?"  
> Indeed, I will make a way in the wilderness  
> and streams in the desert.
> 
> 20 The beasts of the field will honor Me,  
> the jackals and the ostriches,  
> because I provide water in the wilderness  
> and rivers in the desert,  
> to give drink to My chosen people.
> 
> 21 The people I formed for Myself will declare My praise.

---

### Reinforced Promises

#OT/Isaiah-43v1-13 #Promise/God/Calls-Me/By-Name #Promise/God/Swore/I/Am/His #Promise/God/Is/With-Me/Through-The-Waters-and-the-Fire #Promise/My-Children/Come-From/the-East-and-the-West #Promise/My-Children/Are/Created-For-Gods-Glory 

> [!note] **Isaiah 43:1-13**
> 
> 1 Now this is what the LORD says --  
> He who created you, O Jacob,  
> and He who formed you, O Israel:  
> "**Do not fear**, for I **have** redeemed you;  
> I **have called you by your name; you are Mine!**
> 
> 2 When you pass through the waters,  
> I **will** be with you;  
> and when you go through the rivers,  
> they will **not** overwhelm you.  
> When you walk through the fire,  
> you will **not** be scorched;  
> the flames will **not** set you ablaze.
> 
> 3 For I am the LORD your God,  
> the Holy One of Israel, your Savior;  
> I give Egypt for your ransom,  
> Cush and Seba in your place.
> 
> 4 **Because** you are precious and honored in My sight,  
> and **because** I love you,  
> I will give men in exchange for you  
> and nations in place of your life."
> 
> 5 **Do not be afraid, for I am with you;  
> I will bring your offspring from the each  
> and gather you from the west.**
> 
> 6 **I will say to the north, 'Give them up!'  
> and to the south, 'Do not hold them back!'  
> Bring My sons from afar,  
> and My daughters from the ends of the earth --**
> 
> 7 **everyone called by My name and created for My glory,  
> whom I have indeed formed and made."**
> 
> 8 **Bring out a people who have eyes but are blind,  
> and who have ears but are deaf.**
> 
> 9 **All the nations gather together  
> and the peoples assemble.  
> Who among them can declare this,  
> and proclaim to us the former things?  
> Let them present their witnesses to vindicate them,  
> so that others may hear and say, "it is true."**
> 
> 10 "You are My witnesses," declares the LORD,  
> "and My servant whom **I have chosen,**  
> so that you may consider and believe Me  
> and understand that I am He.  
> Before Me no god was formed,  
> and after Me none will come.
> 
> 11 I, yes I, am the LORD,  
> and there is no Savior but Me.
> 
> 12 I alone decreed and saved and proclaimed--  
> I, and not some foreign god among you.  
> So you are My witnesses," declares the LORD,  
> "that I am God.
> 
> 13 Even from eternnity I am He,  
> and none can deliver out of My hand.  
> **When I act, who can reverse it?"**

- This lines up with Isaiah 54 that more are my descendants than she who has a husband. #Promise/My-Children/Are/More-Than/She-Who-Has-a-Husband #Promise/My-Children/Will/Dispossess-Nations
- This lines up with what I got yesterday when You told me to stand at the gates of Hell and to **"call forth** those who want to leave Satan's Kingdom. #Promise/My-Children/Are/Called-Forth-Ones
- You also called my children **"sent-out ones"** because they will come and seek me out; I will not be seeking them out #Promise/My-Children/Are/Sent-Out-Ones

#Promise/Enlarged/Tents-and-Dwellings #Promise/Enlarged/Borders #Promise/My-Children/Will/Dispossess-Nations 

> [!note] **Isaiah 54:2-3**
> 
> 2 **Enlarge the site of** your tent,  
> stretch out the curtains of your dwellings,  
> **do not hold back.**  
> Lengthen your ropes  
> and drive your stakes in deep.
> 
> 3 **For you WILL spread out to the right and left;  
> your descendants will dispossess the nations  
> and inhabit the desolate cities.

#Promise/God/Swore/I/Will/Spread-Out/To-the-Right-and-the-Left  
#Promise/God/Swore/I/Will-Not/Be-Put-To-Shame #Promise/God/Swore/I/Will/Not/Be-Humiliated #Promise/God/Swore/I/Will/Forget/the-Shame-of-My-Youth #Promise/God/Swore/I/Will/Forget/the-Reproach-of-My-Widowhood #Promise/God/Is/My-Husband-and-Maker #Promise/God/Calls-Me/Back 

> [!note] **Isaiah 54:4-8**
> 
> 4 **Do not be afraid,** for you **will not** be put to shame;  
> **do not be intimidated**, for you **will not** be humiliated.  
> For you **will** forget the shame of your youth  
> and **will** remember **no more** the reproach of your widowhood.
> 
> 5 For **your husband is your Maker--**  
> the LORD of Hosts is His name--  
> the Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer;  
> His is called the God of all the earth.
> 
> 6 For the LORD **has** called you back,  
> like a wife deserted and wounded in spirit,  
> like the rejected wife of one's youth,  
> says your God.
> 
 > 7 For a brief moment I forsook you,  
 > but with great compassion I will bring you back.
 > 
 > 8 In a surge of anger  
 > I hid My face from you for a moment,  
 > but with everlasting kindness I will have compassion on you,  
 > says the LORD your Redeemer. 

#Promise/God/Swore/A-Covenant/of-Peace/With-Me  
#Promise/God/Swore/Not-To/Be-Angry-With-Me #Promise/God/Swore/Not-to/Rebuke-Me #Promise/God/Swore/Loving-Devotion/Will-Not/Depart-From-Me #Promise/God/Swore/A-Covenant/of-Peace/Will-Not/Be-Broken #Promise/God/Has/Compassion/On-Me

> [!note] **Isaiah 54:9-10**
> 
> 9 For to Me this is like the days of Noah,  
> when I swore that the waters of Noah would never again cover the earth.  
> **So I have sworn** that I will not be angry with you  
> or rebuke you.
> 
> 10 Though the mountains may be removed and the hills may be shaken,  
> **My loving devotion will not depart from you,  
> and My covenant of peace will not be broken,**  
> says the LORD, who has compassion on you.

#Promise/My-Children/Will-Be/Taught-By-the-Lord  
#Promise/My-Children/Will-Be/Greatly-Prosperous  
#Promise/God/Swore/I/Will-Be/Established #Promise/God/Swore/I/Will-Be/Far-From-Oppression #Promise/God/Swore/I/Will/Have/No-Fear #Promise/God/Swore/Terror/Will-Be/Far-Removed #Promise/God/Swore/Terror/Will-Not/Come-Near-Me 

> [!note] **Isaiah 54:13-14**
> 
> 13 Then all your sons will be taught by the LORD,  
> and great will be their prosperity.
> 
> 14 In righteousness you will be established,  
> far from oppression,  
> for you will have no fear.  
> Terror will be far removed,  
> for it will not come near you.

#Promise/God/Swore/No-Weapon/Formed/Against-Me/Will-Prosper  
#Promise/God/Swore/I/Will/Refute/Every-Accusing-Tongue

> [!note] **Isaiah 54:17**
> 
> 17 No weapon formed against you shall prosper,  
> and you will refute **every** tongue that accuses you.  
> This is the heritage of the servants of the LORD,  
> and their vindication is from Me,"  
> declares the LORD.

#Bible-Character/Jabez/Prayer-of  
#OT/1-Chronicles-4v9-10  
#Promise/Enlarged/Borders #Promise/God/Swore/I/Am/Kept/From-Harm

> [!note] **1 Chronicles-4v9-10**
> 
> 9 Now Jabez was more honorable than his brothers. His mother had named him Jabez, saying, "Because I bore him in pain."
> 
> 10 **And Jabez called out to the God of Israel, "If only You would bless me and enlarge my territory! May Your hand be with me and keep me from harm, so that I will be free from pain."**  
> And God granted the request of Jabez.
