---
Title: 2024-08-05 - Diary
Type: Journal/Diary
Date-Created: 2024 August 05, 05:39 am
Date-Modified: 2024 August 05, 08:43 am
journal: diary
journal-start-date: 2024-08-05
journal-end-date: 2024-08-05
journal-section: day
---
## 2024-08-05 - Diary

#NT/Romans-12v1-2

> [!note] **Romans 12:1-2**
> 
> 1 Therefore I urge you, brothers, on account of God's mercy, to offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God, which is your spiritual service of worship.
> 
> 2 Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Then you will be able to test and approve (discern) what is the good, pleasing, and perfect will of God.

- *transformed - G3339 - metamorphoó* #Greek/G3339-metamorphoó
	- transform, transfigure #Transformed/By/Renewing-the-Mind
	- **HELPS Word-studies**
		- **3339** *metamorphóō* (from [3326](https://biblehub.com/greek/3326.htm) */metá*, "*change after* being *with*" and [3445](https://biblehub.com/greek/3445.htm) */morphóō*, "changing *form* in keeping with inner reality") – properly, transformed *after* being *with*; *transfigured*.
		- 3339(*metamorphóō*) is the root of the English terms "metamorphosis" and "metamorphize."
- We are transformed after being with God. The more time we spend in His Presence the more our minds are being renewed. #Mind/Renewal
- **THEN** we will be able to **TEST** and **APPROVE** what is the good, pleasing, and perfect will of God.
	- *Discern* = to TEST and APPROVE 
		- *G1381 - dokimazo* #Greek/G1381-dokimazo 
			- to put to the test, prove, examine
			- distinguish by testing, approve after testing
			- **HELPS Word-studies**
				- **Cognate: 1381** *dokimázō* (from [1384](https://biblehub.com/greek/1384.htm) */dókimos*, "approved") – properly, to try (test) to *show something is acceptable* (real, *approved*); *put to the test* to reveal what is *good* (*genuine*). [See 1384](https://biblehub.com/greek/1384.htm) (*dokimos*).
				- 1381 */dokimázō* ("to approve by testing") **is done to *demonstrate* what is *good***, i.e. *passes the necessary test*. [1381](https://biblehub.com/greek/1381.htm) (*dokimázō*) **does *not* focus on *disproving* something** (i.e. to show it is *bad*).

---

#Prayer/Answers-to See also [[2024-08-05 - Study#FIFTH LESSON - "Ask, and it Shall Be given you " or The Certainty of the Answer to Prayer.]]

- With respect to prayer …
	- "we must seek for grace to pray so that the answer may come" because it is the rule of the kingdom that **every one** who asketh, receiveth.

---

#Vessel/of-Honor

**Vessel Of Honour**  
by Carroll McGruder

A vessel of honor, I'm longing to be.  
As clay to the potter, may I be to thee.  
You may have to break down, resistance at times.  
But Lord don't stop molding and shaping my life.

Shape me, dear father, please make me like you.  
Mold me completely so I can be true.  
If you have to break me, may I understand  
You're still loving and molding my life in your hands.

It would be such disservice, results would be nil  
If clay rejects potter, and it seeks its own will.  
It could only be cast out, to the old potter's mill.  
Please don't cast me out Master, put me back on your wheel.

Shape me, dear father, please make me like you.  
Mold me completely so I can be true.  
If you have to break me, may I understand  
You're still loving and molding my life in your hands.

If you have to break me, may I understand  
You're still loving and molding my life in your hands.

---
