---
Title: 2024-07-20 - Diary
Type: Journal/Diary
Date-Created: 2024 July 20, 09:50 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 20, 12:24 pm
journal: diary
journal-start-date: 2024-07-20
journal-end-date: 2024-07-20
journal-section: day
---
## 2024-07-20 - Diary

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
From *Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray - Twenty-Second Day

'A free spirit': the word yields very important points. 'Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty,' freedom from all servitude, from all oppression, freedom especially from the fear and doubt which more than else weaken the soul. It is only in the life of the Spirit and the entire surrender of the heart to be filled by the Spirit of God that abiding freedom can be found. It is always only freedom before God that makes us free also in relation to man. And for this full confidence before God it is indispensable that we should resort much to Him, hold much fellowship with Him, and be conscious of maintaining an unreserved surrender to His will and service. He who has thus assured his heart before God shall never need to fear before any man. The continued unclouded consciousness of God's friendship, nourished in hidden conscientious intercourse with Him, will make the soul free from the dominion of the fear of man, and, besides, put it in a position to testify of the praise of God.

**Believer, pray for a free spirit. Grace will certainly bestow it upon you. You hinder grace in its work if you remain without this blessing. You set yourselves in contentment with the half of what the grace of God is prepared to do for you. You defraud grace of the honor due to it, if you continue satisfied without this gift. It is due to you, it is your privilege, and a portion destined for you by God, to walk with a free spirit in the face of the world and of sin, as one of God's redeemed, and as a child of the heavenly King.** Only life the life of grace; only receive the blessings of redemption as they are presented in the verses of this Psalm; let the joy of God's salvation fill you; and in answer to prayer this free spirit also shall become your cherished possession. If you do not yet have it, let your faith stretch out towards it and expect it: be much engaged in the sincere, earnest prayer: **'Uphold me with a free spirit':** out of the riches of the grace of God, you shall certainly obtain it.


---
