---
Date-Created: 2024 August 13, 04:04 am
Date-Modified: 2024 August 14, 07:53 am
journal: diary
journal-end-date: 2024-08-13
journal-section: day
journal-start-date: 2024-08-13
Title: 2024-08-13 - Diary
Type: Journal/Diary
---
## Commend - Commit

### Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary

1. (_v. t._) **To commit, entrust, or give in charge for care or preservation**.
2. (_v. t._) To recommend as worthy of confidence or regard; to present as worthy of notice or favorable attention.
3. (_v. t._) To mention with approbation; to praise; as, to commend a person or an act.
4. (_v. t._) To mention by way of courtesy, implying remembrance and good will.
5. (_n._) Commendation; praise.
6. (_n._) Compliments; greetings.


- G3908 - paratithémi #Greek/G3908-paratithémi
	- to place beside, to set before (to present)
	- entrust, commend, commit
	- **HELPS Word-studies**
		- **3908** _paratíthēmi_ (from [3844](https://biblehub.com/greek/3844.htm) _/pará_, "right close beside" and [5087](https://biblehub.com/greek/5087.htm) _/títhēmi_, "to place, put") – properly, to set close beside (right next to); (figuratively) **entrust; commit to in a very up-close-and-personal way** (note the force of the prefix _para_).


#NT/Luke-23v46

> [!NOTE] **Luke 23:46**
> 
> Then Jesus called out in a loud voice, 'Father, into Your hands I **commit** My Spirit.' And when He had said this, He breathed His last.

#NT/Acts-14v23

> [!NOTE] **Acts 14:23**
> 
> Paul and Barnabas appointed elders for them in each church, praying and fasting as they **entrusted** them to the Lord, in whom they had believed.

#NT/Acts-20v32 

> [!NOTE] **Acts 20:32**
> 
> And now I commit you to God and to the word of His grace, which can build you up and give you an inheritance among all who are sanctified.

#NT/1-Peter-4v19

> [!NOTE] **1 Peter 4:19**
> 
> So then, those who suffer according to God's will should **entrust** their souls to their faithful Creator and continue to do good.

- G3860 - paradidómi - #Greek/G3860-paradidómi
	- to hand over, to give or deliver over, to betray
	- pledge, deliver, commit, commend, abandon
	- **HELPS Word-studies**
		- **3860** _paradídōmi_ (from [3844](https://biblehub.com/greek/3844.htm) _/pará_, "_from_ close-beside" and [1325](https://biblehub.com/greek/1325.htm) _/dídōmi_, "give") – **properly, to give (turn) over**; "hand over from," i.e. to deliver over with a sense of close (personal) involvement.

- Judas - the one who betrayed - #NT/Matthew-10v4
- We will be handed over 
	- to the courts - #NT/Matthew-10 #NT/Mark-13 #NT/Luke-12 
	- by our brothers #NT/Matthew-10 #NT/Mark-13 #NT/Luke-21
	- to tribulation - #NT/Matthew-24v9
- All things handed over to Jesus by the Father - #NT/Matthew-17v27 #NT/Luke-10v22
- Jesus gave up / yielded up His spirit - #NT/John-13v30
- Given over to lusts and degrading passions and depraved minds #NT/Romans-14  
- handed over to, delivered to Satan #NT/1-Corinthians-5v5
- given over to lasciviousness #NT/Ephesians-4v19 


#NT/1-Peter-2v23

> [!NOTE] **1 Peter 2:23**
> 
> When they heaped abuse on Him, He did not retaliate; when He suffered, He made no threats, but **entrusted** Himself to Him who judges justly.

---

## Called

#I-Am/Called #Called/To #Called/Out #Called/Forth

- _G2564 - kaleó_ #Greek/G2564-kaleó 
	- call, summon, invite
	- call, name
	- bid, call forth, name, invite
	- Akin to the base of [keleuo](https://biblehub.com/greek/2753.htm); to "call" (properly, aloud, but used in a variety of applications, directly or otherwise) -- bid, call (forth), (whose, whose sur-)name (was (called)).

- Called to be _children of God_ #NT/Matthew-5v9
- Called/invited to attend the wedding feast - #NT/Matthew-22 #NT/Luke-14 #NT/Revelation-19v9
- God calls into being what does not yet exist - #NT/Romans-4v17 
- Called to be _vessels of His mercy_ and God's people #NT/Romans-9v24-25
- Called to be _sons_ - #NT/Romans-9v26 #NT/1-John-3v1
- Called into fellowship with God's Son - #NT/1-Corinthians-1v9
- God has called us to peace - #NT/1-Corinthians-7v15 #NT/Colossians-3v15
- We are called to freedom - #NT/Galatians-5v13
- Called to one hope - #NT/Ephesians-4v4
- Called into God's own Kingdom and glory #NT/1-Thessalonians-2v12
- Called to a holy calling - #NT/2-Timothy-1v9
- Called that we may receive an eternal inheritance #NT/Hebrews-9v15
- Called to be holy - #NT/1-Peter-1v15
- Called out of darkness into marvelous light #NT/1-Peter-2v9
- Called to suffer for Christ - #NT/1-Peter-2v21
- Called to love and to inherit a blessing - #NT/1-Peter-3v9 
- Called to God's eternal glory in Christ - #NT/1-Peter-5v10

#NT/Romans-8v29-30

> [!NOTE] **Romans 8:29-30**
> 
> 29 For those God foreknew, He also predestined to be conformed to the image of His Son, so that He would be the firstborn among many brothers.
> 
> 30 And those He predestined, He also **called**; those He **called**, He also justified; those He justified, He also glorified.

#NT/1-Peter-3v9

> [!NOTE] **1 Peter 3:9**
> 
> Do not repay evil with evil or insult with insult, but with blessing, because to this you were **called** so that you may inherit a blessing.

---

## Consecration - Set apart

### Easton's Bible Dictionary

The devoting or setting apart of anything to the worship or service of God. The race of Abraham and the tribe of Levi were thus consecrated ([Exodus 13:2](https://biblehub.com/exodus/13-2.htm), 12, 15; [Numbers 3:12](https://biblehub.com/numbers/3-12.htm)). The Hebrews devoted their fields and cattle, and sometimes the spoils of war, to the Lord ([Leviticus 27:28](https://biblehub.com/leviticus/27-28.htm), 29). **According to the Mosaic law the first-born both of man and beast were consecrated to God**.

In the New Testament, Christians are regarded as consecrated to the Lord ([1 Peter 2:9](https://biblehub.com/1_peter/2-9.htm)).

- _G38 - hagiasmos_ #Greek/G38-hagiasmos 
	- consecration, sanctification
	- the process of making or becoming holy, set apart, sanctification, holiness, consecration
	- **HELPS Word-studies**
		- **Cognate: 38** _hagiasmós_ (a masculine noun derived from [40](https://biblehub.com/greek/40.htm) _/hágios_, "holy") – _sanctification_ (the process of advancing in _holiness_); use of the believer being progressively transformed by the Lord into His likeness (similarity of nature). [See 40](https://biblehub.com/greek/40.htm) _/hagios_ ("holy").

#NT/Romans-6v18-19

> [!NOTE] **Romans 6:18-22**
> 
> 18 You have been set free from sin and have become slaves to righteousness.
> 
> 19 … so now offer (the parts of your body) in slavery to righteousness leading to holiness.
> 
> 20 For when you were slaves to sin, you were free of obligation to righteousness.
> 
> 21 …
> 
> 22 But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves to God, the fruit you reap leads to holiness, and the outcome is eternal life.

#NT/1-Corinthians-15v35-36 

> [!NOTE] **1 Corinthians 15:35-36**
> 
> 35 But someone will ask, "How are the dead raise? With what kind of body will they come?"
> 
> 36 You fool! What yous ow does not come to life unless it dies.

#NT/1-Thessalonians-4v3-8

> [!NOTE] **1 Thessalonians 4:3-8**
> 
> 3 For it is God's will that you should be holy (hagiasmos): You must abstain from sexual immorality; 4 each of you must know how to control his own body<sup>a</sup> in holiness (hagiasmos) and honor, 5 not in lustful passion like the Gentiles who do not know God; 6 and no one should ever violate or exploit his brother in this regard,<sup>b</sup> because the Lord will avenge all such acts, as we have already told you and solemnly warned you. 7 For God has not called us to impurity, but to holiness (hagiasmos). 8 Anyone, then, who rejects this command does not reject man but God, the very One who gives you His Holy Spirit.
> 
> **Footnotes:**
> 
> 4 a Literally **know how to possess his own vessel**\
> 6 b Or **no one should ever harm or cheat his brother in this matter**

#NT/2-Thessalonians-2v13

> [!NOTE] **2 Thessalonians 2:13**
> 
> But we should always thank God for you, brothers who are loved the Lord, because God **has chosen** you from the beginning<sup>a</sup> to be saved by the sanctification (hagiasmos) of the Spirit and by faith in the truth.
> 
> **Footnotes**
> 
> 13 a **Or God has chosen you as the firstfruits**

#NT/1-Timothy-2v15

> [!NOTE] **1 Timothy 2:15**
> 
> Women, however, will be saved through childbearing, if they continue in faith, love, and holiness (hagiasmos), with self-control.

#NT/Hebrews-12v14

> [!NOTE] **Hebrews 12:14**
> 
> Pursue peace with everyone, as well as holiness (hagiasmos), without which no one will see the Lord.

#NT/1-Peter-1v2 

> [!NOTE] **1 Peter 1:2**
> 
> … chosen
> 
> 2 according to the foreknowledge of God the Father and sanctified (hagiasmos) by the Spirit **for obedience** to Jesus Christ and sprinkling by His blood: …
