---
Title: 2024-08-03 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 August 03, 08:53 am
Date-Modified: 2024 August 03, 09:40 am
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-08-03
journal-end-date: 2024-08-03
journal-section: day
---
## Newsletters

### Faith's Checkbook - The Right to Holy Things

#OT/Leviticus-22v11

> [!example] **Leviticus 22:11**
> 
> 11 But if a priest buys a slave with his own money, or if a slave is born in his household, that slave may eat his food.

> Strangers, sojourners, and servants upon hire were not to eat of holy things. It is so in spiritual matters still. But two classes were free at the sacred table, those who were bought with the priest's money, and those who were born into the priest's house. Bought and born, these were the two indisputable proofs of a right to holy things.

> Bought. Our great High Priest has bought with a price all those who put their trust in Him. They are His absolute property - altogether the Lord's. Not for what they are in themselves, but for their owner's sake they are admitted into the same privileges which He Himself enjoys, and "they shall eat of his meat." He has meat to eat which worldlings know not of. "Because ye belong to Christ," therefore shall ye share with your Lord.

> Born. This an equally sure way to privilege; if born in the Priest's house we take our place with the rest of the family. Regeneration makes us fellow-heirs, and of the same body; and, therefore, the peace, the joy, the glory, which the Father has given to Christ, Christ has given to us. Redemption and regeneration have given us a double claim to the divine permit of this promise.

## Devotions

### With Christ In The School Of Prayer - Andrew Murray

### "LORD, TEACH US TO PRAY."

#Author/Andrew-Murray/With-Christ-in-the-School-of-Prayer

#### THIRD LESSON - "Pray to Thy Father, Which is in secret;" or Alone with God.

#NT/Matthew-6v6-KJV

> [!example] **Matthew 6:6**
> 
> 6 But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thine inner chamber, and having shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret, and thy Father which seeth in secret shall recompense thee.

> (In God's kingdom) God is not only King, but Father; He not only gives all, but is Himself all.

> Moses gave neither command nor regulation with regard to prayer; even the prophets say little directly of the duty of prayer; **it is Christ who teaches to pray.**

> And the first thing the Lord teaches His disciples is that they must have a secret place for prayer; every one must have some solitary spot where he can be alone with his God. Every teacher must have a schoolroom…. That inner chamber, that solitary place, is Jesus' schoolroom.

> … (a) secret place there must be, with the quiet time in which the pupil places himself in the Master's presence, to be by Him prepared to worship the Father. There alone, but there most surely, Jesus comes to us to teach us to pray.

> In His first words on prayer in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus seeks to set the inner chamber before us in its most attractive light. If we listen carefully, we soon notice what the chief thing is He has to tell us of our tarrying there. Three times He uses the name of Father; "Pray **thy Father**;" "**Thy Father** shall recompense thee;" "**Your Father** knoweth what things ye have need of."

> The first thing in the closet-prayer is: I must meet my Father. The light that shines in the closet must be the light of the Father's countenance. The fresh air from heaven with which Jesus would have it filled, the atmosphere in which I am to breathe and pray, is: **God's Father-love, God's infinite Fatherliness.** Thus each thought or petition we breathe out will be simple, hearty, childlike trust in the Father.

> This is how the Master teaches us to pray; He brings us into the Father's living presence. **What we pray there *must* avail.** Let us listen carefully to hear what the Lord has to say to us.

> First, "**Pray to thy Father which is in secret."** God is a God who hides Himself to the carnal eye. As long as in our worship of God we are chiefly occupied with our own thoughts and exercises, we shall not meet Him who is a Spirit, the unseen One. 
> 
> But to the man who withdraws himself from all that is of the world and man, and prepares to wait upon God alone, the Father will reveal Himself. As he forsakes and gives up and shuts out the world, and the life of the world and surrenders himself to be led of Christ into the secret of God's presence, the light of the Father's love will rise upon him.

> The secrecy of the inner chamber and the closed door, the entire separation from all around us, is an image of, and so a help to that spiritual sanctuary, the secret of God's tabernacle, within the veil, where our spirit truly comes into contact with the Invisible One. And so we are taught, at the very outset of our search after the secret of **effectual** prayer, to remember that **it is in the inner chamber, where we are alone with the Father, that we shall learn to pray aright.**  

> The Father is in secret; in these words Jesus teaches us where He is waiting us, where He is always to be found. 

> Child of God! listen to your Teacher. He tells you that when you go to private prayer your first thought must be: the Father is in secret, the Father waits me there…. O do what Jesus says: Just shut the door and pray to thy Father which is in secret. 

> **"And thy Father which seeth in secret, will recompense thee."** Here Jesus assures us that secret prayer **cannot** be fruitless; its blessing will show itself in our life. We have but in secret, alone with God, to entrust our life before men to Him; He will reward us openly; He will see to it that the answer to prayer be made manifest in His blessing upon us. Our Lord would thus teach us that as infinite Fatherliness and Faithfulness is that with which God meets us in secret, so on our part there should be the childlike simplicity of faith, the confidence that our prayer does bring down a blessing. "He that cometh to God must believe that **He is a rewarder** of them that seek Him." **Not on the strong or the fervent feeling** with which I pray does the blessing of the closet depend, but upon the love and the power of the Father to whom I there entrust my needs.  

> And therefore the Master has but one desire: Remember your Father is, and sees, and hears in secret; go there and stay there, and go again from there in the confidence: He will recompense. Trust Him for it; depend upon Him; prayer to the Father **cannot** be vain; He **will** reward you openly.

> Still further to confirm this faith in the Father-love of God, Christ speaks a third word: "**Your Father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask Him.**" At first sight it might appear as if this thought made prayer less needful; God knows far better than we what we need. But as we get a deeper insight into what prayer really is, this truth will help much to strengthen our faith. It will teach us that we do not need, as the heathen, with the multitude and urgency of our words, to compel an unwilling God to listen to us. It will lead to a holy thoughtfulness and silence in prayer as it suggests the questions: **Does my Father really know that I need this?** It will, when once we have been led by the Spirit to the certainty that our request is indeed something that according to the Word, we do need for God's glory, give us wonderful confidence to say, My Father knows I need it and must have it. And if there be any delay in the answer, it will teach us in quiet perseverance to hold on; **FATHER! THOU KNOWEST I need it**. O the blessed liberty and simplicity of a child that Christ our Teacher would fain cultivate in us, as we draw near to God; let us look up to the Father until His Spirit works it in us. Let us sometimes in our prayers, when we are in danger of being so occupied with our fervent, urgent petitions, as to forget that the Father knows and hears, let us hold (s)till and just quietly say: My Father sees, my Father hears, my Father knows; it will help our faith to take the answer, and to say: We know that we have the petitions we have asked of Him.

**"LORD, TEACH US TO PRAY."

---

> Blessed Savior! with my whole heart I do bless Thee for the appointment of the inner chamber, as the school where Thou meetest each of Thy pupils alone, and revealest to him the Father. O my Lord! strengthen my faith so in the Father's tender love and kindness, that as often as I feel sinful or troubled, the first instinctive thought may be to go where I know the Father waits me, and where prayer never can go unblessed. Let the thought that He knows my need before I as, bring me, in great restfulness of faith, to trust that He will give what His child requires. O let the place of secret prayer become to me the most beloved spot of earth.
> 
> And, Lord! hear me as I pray that Thou wouldest everywhere bless the closets of Thy believing people. Let Thy wonderful revelation of a Father's tenderness free all young Christians from every thought of secret prayer as a duty or a burden, and lead them to regard it as the highest privilege of their life, a joy and a blessing. Bring back all who are discouraged, because they cannot find ought to bring Thee in prayer. O give them to understand that they have only to come with their emptiness to Him who has all to give, and delights to do it. Not, what they have to bring the Father, but what the Father waits to give them, be their one thought.
> 
> And bless especially the inner chamber of all Thy servants who are working for Thee, as the place where God's truth and God's grace is revealed to them, where they are daily anointed with fresh oil, where their strength is renewed, and the blessings are received in faith, with which they are to bless their fellow-men. Lord, draw us all in the closet nearer to Thyself and the Father. Amen.

## Music

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes
