---
Title: 2024-07-18 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 18, 01:31 pm
Date-Modified: 2024 July 19, 09:55 am
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-18
journal-end-date: 2024-07-18
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 13

- v 2 - An while they were serving the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, '**Set apart** now for me Barnabas and Saul **for the work to which I have called them.**' #Bible-Character/Barnabas/Set-Apart #Bible-Character/Barnabas/Sent-Out #Bible-Character/Paul/Set-Apart #Bible-Character/Paul/Sent-Out
- v3 - Then, after they had fasted and prayed and place their hands on them, **they sent them away.**
	- consistent with an apostle being a "sent out one"
	- G630 - apoluó #Greek/G630-apoluó
		- From *apo* and *luo*; to free fully, *i.e.* relieve, release, dismiss, or let die, pardon or divorce.
- v 4 - Therefore **sent out** by the Holy Spirit, they came down to Seleucia, and from there they sailed to Cyprus. #Place/Seleucia #Place/Cyprus
	- G1599 - ekpempó #Greek/G1599-ekpempó
		- To send out, send forth. From *ek* and *pempo*; to despatch
- v 6 - And when they had crossed over the whole island as far as Paphos, #Place/Paphos They found a certain man, a magician, a Jewish **false prophet** whose name was Bar-Jesus. #Bible-Character/Bar-Jesus/aka-Elymas/False-Prophet
	- First named **false prophet** in the New Testament?
- v 9-11 - But Saul (also called Paul), filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at him and said, "O you who are full of all deceit and of all unscrupulousness, you son of the devil, you enemy of all righteousness!! Will you not stop making crooked the straight paths of the Lord! And now behold, the hand of the Lord is against you, and you will be blind, not seeing the sun, for a while. And **immediately** mist and darkness fell over him, and he was going around looking for people to lead him by the hand. #Devil/Son-of #Bible-Character/Bar-Jesus/aka-Elymas/Blinded #Signs-and-Wonders/Evidence/of-the-Gospel  
	- Father God, are we to be demonstrating these types of signs / wonders today as **a demonstration evidence** of Your power and authority ?  
- v 36 - For David, **after serving the purpose of God in his own generation,** fell asleep and was buried with his fathers, and experienced decay.
- v 38-39 - Therefore let it be known to you, men and brothers, that through this one forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you, **and from all the things from which you were not able to be justified by the law of Moses,** by this one **everyone** who believes is justified! #Forgiveness/of-Sins #Justification 
- v 40-41 - **Watch out, therefore, lest what is stated by the prophets come upon you:** 'Look, you scoffers, and be astonished and perish! For I am doing a work in your days, a work that you would never believe even if someone were to tell it to you.' #Scoffers
- v 44-45 - And on the coming Sabbath, nearly the whole city came together to hear the word of the Lord. But **when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy, and began contradicting what was being said by Paul by reviling him.** Both Paul and Barnabas spoke boldly and said, '**It was necessary that the word of God be spoken first to you, since you reject it and do not consider yourselves worthy of eternal life! Behold, we are turning to the Gentiles.'
	- Think about what Paul said to the Jews … they did not consider themselves worthy of eternal life, and thus rejected the Gospel message.  
- v 48 - And when the Gentiles heard this, they began to rejoice and to glorify the word of the Lord. **And all those who were designated for eternal life believed.**
- v 50 - But the Jews incited the devout women of high social standing and the most prominent men of the city, and stirred up persecution against Paul and Barnabas and threw them out of their district.
- v 51 - **So after shaking off the dust from their feet against them,** they went to Iconium. #Place/Iconium

## Newsletters

### Faith's Checkbook - Valiant for Truth

> **Daniel 11:32**
> 
> The people that do know their God shall be strong, and do exploits.

> "The Lord is a man of war, Jehovah is his name." Those who enlist under His banner shall have a Commander who will train them for the conflict, and give them both vigor and valor.

> Oh, that we may know our God; His power, His faithfulness, His immutable love, and so may be ready to risk everything in His behalf.  

> Oh, that we may know our God by familiar fellowship with Him; for then we shall become like Him, and shall be prepared to stand up for truth and righteousness.  

> He who comes forth fresh from beholding the face of God will never fear the face of man.

> Oh, to be valiant for truth in this day of falsehood.

### Faith's Checkbook - Wilderness Communion

> **Hosea 2:14**
> 
> 14 I will allure her, and bring her into the wilderness, and speak comfortably unto her.

> Do we not remember when the Lover of our souls first cast a spell upon us and charmed us away from the fascinations of the world? He will do this again and again whenever He sees us likely to be ensnared by evil.

> He promises to draw us apart, for there He can best deal with us, and this separated place is not to be a Paradise, but a wilderness, since in such a place there will be nothing to take off our attention from our God.  

> Solitude and affliction bring more to themselves and to their heavenly Father than any other means.

> When thus allured and secluded the Lord has choice things to say to us for our comfort. He 'speaks to our heart,' … **Oh, that at this we may have this promise explained in our experience! Allured by love, separated by trial, and comforted by the Spirit of truth, may we know the Lord and sing for joy!**

### David Wilkerson - The Furtherance of the Gospel

> **Psalm 34:19**
> 
> 19 Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lrod delivers him out of them all.

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray

### Twentieth Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'And Take not Thy Holy Spirit from me.'-- Ver 11b

> That I may walk on earth in intercourse with God in heaven is indeed wonderful grace; but that the Most High should come down from His heaven **to dwell in my heart** and consecrate it to be His temple -- this surely is the full glory of what grace has destined for us.  

> … the petition here looks to that indwelling of the Spirit of God which is the privilege of the believer. He dwells in them, to teach them (John 16: 13-14), to seal them and give them the assurance of sonship (Romans 8:15-16), to sanctify and prepare them for heaven (Romans 8:11).

> … expect not only a clean heart, a steadfast spirit, and the light of God's face, but **also** the indwelling God's Spirit in the heart…. Without this, he does not live according to the will of God.

> This petition is a part of the prayer for grace; for it is wholly due to the grace of God if the Holy Spirit is not taken away from believers. As often as injury is done to Him, He is dishonoured and has reason to withdraw, so that, were He not really the Spirit of grace, He would certainly leave us.

> The lessons for the believer are especially these two. First of all, that the Holy Spirit will dwell in him…. In the second place, this blessing must be a distinct element in the prayer for grace. The soul that is desirous of salvation must feel that he is unworthy of this blessing, and forfeits it at every turn.

## Music

- The Goodness of God

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Keywords Today

- Holiness
- Righteousness
- Victory
- **MORE** than a conqueror

### Quotes
