---
Title: 2024-07-22 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 22, 05:38 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 23, 02:50 pm
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-22
journal-end-date: 2024-07-22
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 17

#Bible-Character/Paul #Bible-Character/Silas #Bible-Character/Jason #Bible-Character/Timothy #Bible-Character/Dionysius/the-Areopagite #Bible-Character/Damaris  
#Place/Amphipolis #Place/Apollonia #Place/Thessalonica #Place/Berea #Place/Athens 

- main point of this passage is that those who reject the Gospel are so full of hatred towards those who proclaim it, they not only stir up the people in their own communities, but when they hear the Gospel is being preached elsewhere, they have to go and stir up trouble against them there, too.
- v 16 - Now while Paul was waiting for them (Silas and Timothy) in Athens, **his spirit was provoked within him** as he saw the city full of idols. #spirit/provoked
- v 30 - Therefore God overlooked the times of ignorance, **but now he commands all men everywhere to repent.** #Repentance 
- v 31 - This is because he has set a day when he will judge the world in righteousness by the man he has chosen. God has given proof of this man to everyone by raising him from the dead.

## Newsletters

### Faith's Checkbook - An Eternal Pledge

#OT/Hosea-2v19-20 #Betrothed 

> [!note] **Hosea 2:19-20**
> 
> 19 So I will betroth you to Me forever;  
> I will betroth you in righteousness and justice,  
> in loving devotion and compassion.
> 
> 20 And I will betroth you in faithfulness,  
> and you will now the LORD.

> Three times the Lord says, "I will betroth thee." What words He heaps together to set forth the betrothal! Righteousness comes in to make the covenant legal; none can forbid these lawful banns. Judgment sanctions the alliance with its decree: none can see folly or error in the match. Lovingkindness warrants that this is a love union, for without love betrothal is bondage, and not blessedness.

> Meanwhile, mercy smiles, and even sings; yea, she multiplies herself into "mercies," because of the abounding grace of this holy union.

> Faithfulness is the registrar, and records the marriage, and the Holy Spirit says "Amen" to it, as He promises to teach the betrothed heart all the sacred knowledge needful for its high destiny!

Oh Lord God! You made this promise to me many years ago; it was echoed in Isaiah 54 and elsewhere. O my Blessing Lord … cause me to never take this for granted or despise it in any form. Help me, O Holy Spirit, to lay hold of it and apprehend it fully. For without a Husband, any spiritual children would be illegitimate.  

Here am I, Lord … I am willing … please make me ready; and please make me a pure, righteous, and faithful Bride. Please make me to look to You always and forever for everything I, and my children require.

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray

### Twenty-Fourth Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'And Sinners Shall Be Converted unto Thee' -- Ver 13b

> … in (David's) prayer he already anticipates the glory of God's grace. He feels that the grace of God is more powerful than his sin, and that as grace could take away his sin before God, **so also it could bring it about that his sin should not prevent his access to men**.

> He feels that if grace had redeemed him, the chief of sinners, and had shown its great goodness to him, it would also be prepared to make use of him as a blessing to others. And therefore he not only promises: 'I will teach transgressors Thy ways,' but also believes that God will certainly bless his work: 'Sinners shall be converted unto Thee.'

> He trust in grace for others, even as for himself. **The grace which has blessed him will make him a blessing.** 

> And the great question for us must be this: how shall we succeed in cherishing this believing persuasion? Let us consider carefully on what foundation it rests.

> … first of all, that conversion is given **in the use of means. 'I will teach transgressors; sinners shall be converted.'** 

> It is not enough to mourn over the poor unbelieving world. It is not even enough to pray for the conversion of sinners. Something more is necessary. They must be taught. And this teaching must not simply be dispensed on the Lord's day, or be handed over to the preachers of the gospel: **every believer must within his own circle faithfully perform and carry out the promise of the text.

> On the back of the prayer: 'Have mercy upon me,' must the promise follow: 'I will teach'; **God is faithful to grant conversion.** 

> Observe, further, **in what spirit** the means are to be used.  

> David says that, as one who had been pardoned, who had received the forgiveness of God and the joy of His salvation, he will teach transgressors.

> … if you would see the teaching and conversion of sinners, there must be in you a living and effective experience of the grace of God. The blotting out of your guilt in a tender and daily use of the blood of Jesus must be the joy of your soul. Your walk in a progressive sanctification must be carried out through the purifying of your heart and the renewing of a steadfast spirit in your inmost life.

> Let your teaching of others only be the fruit of indwelling grace: it cannot remain unblessed.

## Music

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes
