---
Title: 2024-07-19 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 19, 06:59 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 20, 09:50 am
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-19
journal-end-date: 2024-07-19
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 14

- v 1-2 It came about in Iconium that Paul and Barnabas entered together into the synagogue of the Jews and **spoke in such a way that a great multitude both of Jews and of Greeks believed**. But the Jews who were disobedient **stirred up the minds** of the Gentiles and made them bitter against the brothers. #Place/Iconium #Bible-Character/Paul/in-Iconium #Bible-Character/Barnabas/in-Iconium
- v 3 - So they stayed there for a long time, **speaking boldly with the Lord's power, while he (God) gave evidence about the message of his grace**. He did this by **granting signs and wonders to be done by the hands of Paul and Barnabas**. #Signs-and-Wonders/Evidence/of-the-Gospel
	- Father God, I ask that You would once again give evidence about the message of Your grace. I ask that You would do this by granting signs and wonders to be done by the hands of Your true disciples. I understand why You cannot do this in what passes for Your 'church' today … I ask that You would raise up an army of faithful witnesses through whom You can cause Your power to fall up so that You can give the evidence by granting them signs and wonders by their hands. I pray that the fear of You would once again fall upon all of mankind; that they would respect You, Your holiness, and Your righteousness. O Lord God, empower Your Body … pour out Your Spirit afresh upon Your servants; cause us to fall on our faces before You in repentance and holy fear; cause us to walk in Your Spirit in truth, holiness, righteousness, obedience, and victory. Work through us to set people free from themselves; from their sin; and from the enemy.  
- v 4 - But the majority of the city was divided: some people sided with the Jews, and some with the apostles.
	- O Lord, God, may Your Spirit draw as many people as possible to come to You and surrender their all to You; that they would dedicate themselves to You wholly; that they would be full of the fear of You; and that You would teach them Your truth and steer them away from all of the false teachers and prophets; grant them Your knowledge, understanding, wisdom, discernment, insight, illumination and inspiration; May Your Spirit be so strong upon them that it is said of them that they KNOW their God and they do exploits on Your behalf and on behalf of the people.
	- v 5-7 - When both Gentiles and Jews attempted to persuade their leaders to mistreat and stone Paul and Barnabas, they became aware of it and fled to the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra and Derbe, and the surround region, and there they were proclaiming the gospel. #Persecution/Believers-Scattered/Spreads-the-Gospel #Place/Lycaonia #Place/Lystra #Place/Derbe #Scattered/Because-of/Persecution 
		- Persecution is the means God used to spread the Gospel. The further the Body is scattered, the further the Gospel was proclaimed.
- v 8 - At Lystra a certain man sat, **powerless in his feet**, a cripple from his mother's womb, who never had walked. #Place/Lystra #Healing/Lame
- v 9 - This man heard Paul speaking, Paul **fixed his eyes on him and saw that he had faith to be made well.** #Healing/Faith-for
- v 10 - So he said to him (the lame man) **in a loud voice, "Stand up on your feet."** Then the man jumped up and walked around. #Healing/Lame #Healing/Command/Stand-Up/on-Your-Feet
- v 19 - But some Jews from Antioch and Iconium came and persuaded the crowds. They stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, thinking that he was dead. #Place/Iconium #Place/Antioch #Bible-Character/Paul/Stoned
- v 22 - … "We must enter into the kingdom of God through many sufferings". #Kingdom/of-God/Entered/Through-Suffering #Suffering/Necessary/to-Enter-Kingdom-of-God

## Newsletters

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray

### Twenty-First Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### ''Restore unto Me the Joy of Thy salvation.' -- Ver 12a

> … the joy of God's salvation is not only the desire and the portion of those just converted who are rejoicing in the first gladness of forgiveness, but is equally destined for the Christian who is striving onward in the pathway of growth and sanctification.

> The sinner that has once been awakened to know his sin cannot possibly rejoice in God, unless he knows God as One who has blotted out his sin. He knows, that, if this blessing has not been received by him, God is still his enemy, and a consuming fire. Only when the soul has come to the cross and received an interest in the atonement of Christ, can the thought of the holy God fill it with gladness. It is fellowship with the reconciling God that imparts joy.

> And, in like manner, the continuance and growth of the soul's joy depends on deepening communion with this God.  

> The very first act of God in beginning this fellowship with the soul, namely, the forgiveness of sins, imparts gladness. 

> The next work of God in the soul is sanctification, in which through His work of restoration, He establishes in it the clean heart and the steadfast spirit, a life in the light of His countenance, and the indwelling of the Holy Spirit.

> And just as little as the soul can experience its first gladness **without forgiveness**, can it experience continued joy **apart from a holy life**.

> The joy of forgiveness will not always remain, unless it be confirmed as the joy of sanctification.

> It is the joy of God's **salvation** for which David prays: there is joy in God's salvation: according as we only yield ourselves to God for it, faithfully and wholly, we shall enjoy it.

> The joy and the blessedness of God are His perfect holiness. The joy of His children also is the joy of holiness. Without a clean heart and a holy walk the Christian cannot continuously experience joy.  

> It is only in the measure that the salvation of god is appropriated effectually, and as an element of actual experience, that joy can be tasted.

> **Joy is not, as some would have it, a separate gift which can be received and enjoyed apart from further experience of God's salvation; no: it is the joy of that salvation, and is tasted just in proportion as the soul surrenders itself to that salvation, and to the redeeming, sanctifying grace of God which bestows it.

> Let him who would be glad only cleave to the Lord, the source of all joy. Let him who would have joy, surrender himself to the salvation of the Lord: let him live first in the assurance of forgiveness and in devotion to sanctification: then he may with confidence ask and expect 'a joy that is unspeakable and full of glory.'

## Music

- *A Vessel of Honor For God*
- *The Goodness of God*

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes
