---
Title: 2024-07-11 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 11, 07:25 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 19, 08:18 am
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-11
journal-end-date: 2024-07-11
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 6

- "It is not desirable that we neglect the word of God to serve tables."
- "But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the word."
- "And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the Spirit with which he (Stephen) was speaking." #Bible-Character/Stephen

The enemy's tactics against Stephen

- they secretly instigated men who said, "We have heard him speaking blasphemous words against Moses and God."
- They incited the people and the elders and the scribes, and they came up and seized him and brought him to the Sanhedrin.
- And they put forward false witnesses who said, "This man does not stop speaking words against the holy place and the law! For we have heard him saying …"

## Newsletters

### David Wilkerson - Pleasing the Lord

#Quote/David-Wilkerson/Grace/A-Teacher-of-Holiness

> We distort God's grace by making it out to be some kind of tunnel out of the prison of his law, **but grace is actually a teacher of holiness** -- **David Wilkerson - Pleasing the Lord**

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray 

### THE PRAYER FOR FORGIVENESS

### Thirteenth Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'Wash Me, and I Shall Be Whiter than snow.' -- Ver 7b

The expected answer - "I shall be whiter than snow"

> Wash me, and **I will be whiter than snow**.

> 'Whiter than snow' does not have reference to the inward renewal and purifying of the heart. David does not say that when he is washed he will then be perfect, and commit sin no more. **One who has been washed clean may always again fall into the mire and become soiled.** Grace gives us an inward purity; only it does not come at once and in perfect for, but gradually and step by step.

> What he here speaks of is that entire freedom from guilt which everyone receives with the forgiveness of sins.

> nothing less is offered to you.

> … all that is necessary for your salvation God Himself has prepared. When God forgives, He forgives perfectly.

 > Nothing less than this (God's cleansing and forgiveness making us 'white as snow') can bring you full peace.
> 
 > … nothing less than this must be your desire.

> … lay aside your own prayers and your own thoughts about that which God is to do for you, and … learn to pray as the Holy Spirit taught David: 'Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow'.

> … let your faith now really receive this blessing.

## Music

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes

### Nesher FB Group Message

#Nesher/FB-Group/Deborah  
#Prophecy/Mothers/in-the-Prophetic

MOTHERS IN THE PROPHETIC ARISE!

This is an encouragement for anyone called as a Deborah or a mother (especially in the prophetic).

I dreamed last night of the numbers 5 and 7 and went on a treasure hunt through scripture. I believe the Lord is continuing to call forth mothers in the prophetic to raise up this next generation of prophetic people. 

In the song of Deborah in Judges 5, she sings the following:  
"Villagers in Israel would not fight; they held back until I, Deborah, arose, until I arose, a mother in Israel." - Judges 5:7 NIV

This next generation will not continue to fight for prophetic purity until the mothers (and fathers) take their place in discipling, shepherding and leading the young ones into their prophetic destinies. 

A FEW WORDS OF WISDOM FOR THOSE BEING RAISED:

1. Not every dream, vision or prophetic revelation needs to be broadcast far and wide. Ask the Lord for the intended audience. Sometimes it may just be for YOU. 

"For in the multitude of dreams and many words there is also vanity. But fear God." - Ecclesiastes 5:7 NKJV

The fear of the Lord must lead in the release of any prophetic utterance. (Lord, purify me first 🙏🏼🤍)

1. It is a faith walk. We can only prophesy to the extent of the limits of our faith (Rom:6). Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God (Rom:17) so we must be saturated in the Scriptures. It can't come out of us if it's not in us.

"For we walk by faith, not by sight." - 2 Corinthians 5:7 NKJV

1. Press in for both the early and the latter rain. Fruit takes time to grow. Developing prophetic muscle in people takes great patience and grace to deal with the inevitable stumbling blocks to growth. Young ones need safety to fall and fail within guardrails and boundaries. They need to be lovingly guided and not scolded. 

"Therefore be patient, brethren, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, waiting patiently for it until it receives the early and latter rain." - James 5:7 NKJV

Early AND latter rain implies both seasonal changes as well as blessing from the Lord. There is grace and blessing for those called to lead in this space.  
If you are called to mother in the prophetic, I'd like to connect with you. I'm raising up a global Zadokite company with expressions in regions. I certainly am not called to do this alone. If you feel a witness in your spirit with this message, please reach out via email. (My Messenger is not accessible to the public).

inquiries@naomibyersministries.com 

Deborah, it's time for you to arise!

---

Sent Naomi Byers an email at the address listed above.
