---
Date-Created: 2024 August 12, 05:47 am
Date-Modified: 2024 August 13, 08:53 am
journal: Study
journal-end-date: 2024-08-12
journal-section: day
journal-start-date: 2024-08-12
Title: 2024-08-12 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
---
## Newsletters

### Faith's Checkbook - light in Darkness

#OT/2-Samuel-22v29-KJV

> [!NOTE] **2 Samuel 22:29 KJV**
> 
> For thou art my lamp, O LORD: and the Lord will lighten my darkness

> Am I in the light? Then thou, O Lord, art my lamp. Take thee away, and my joy would be gone; but as long as thou art with me, I can do without the torches of time and the candles of created comfort. What a light the presence of God casts on all things! We heard of a lighthouse which could be seen for twenty miles, but our Jehovah is not only a God at hand, but far off is He seen, even in the enemy's country. O Lord, I am as happy as an angel when thy love fills my heart. Thou art all my desire.
> 
> Am I in the dark? Then thou, O Lord, wilt lighten my darkness. Before long things will change. Affairs may grow more and more dreary, and cloud may be piled upon cloud; but if it grow so dark that I cannot see my own hand, still I shall see the hand of the Lord. When I cannot find a light within me, or among my friends, or in the whole world, the Lord, who said "Let there be light," and there was light, can say the same again. He will speak me into the sunshine yet. I shall not die but live. The day is already breaking. This sweet text shines like a morning star. I shall clap my hands for joy ere many hours are passed.

## Devotions

### With Christ in the School of Prayer - Andrew Murray

### "LORD, Teach Us to PRAY."

#Author/Andrew-Murray/With-Christ-in-the-School-of-Prayer

#### Twelfth Lesson - "Have Faith in God;" Or, the Secret of Believing Prayer.

#NT/Mark-11v22-24-KJV

> [!NOTE] **Mark 11:22-24 KJV**
> 
> Jesus, answering, said unto them, HAVE FAITH IN GOD. Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that what He saith cometh to pass; he shall have it. Therefore, I say unto you, All things whatsoever ye pray and ask for, believe that ye have received them, and ye shall have them.

> THE promise of answer to prayer which formed our yesterday's lesson is one of the most wonderful in all Scripture. In how many hearts it has raised the question, **How ever can I attain the faith that knows that it receives all it asks ?**
> 
> It is this question our Lord would answer to-day. Ere He gave that wonderful promise to His disciples, He spoke another word, in which He points out where the faith in the answer to prayer takes its rise, and ever finds its strength. HAVE FAITH IN GOD: this word precedes the other, Have faith in the promise of an answer to prayer. The power to believe a **promise** depends entirely, but only, on faith in **the promiser**. **Trust in the person begets trust in his word. It is only where we live and associate with God in personal, loving intercourse, where God HIMSELF is all to us, where our whole being is continually opened up and exposed to the mighty influences that are at work where His Holy Presence is revealed, that the capacity will be developed for believing that He gives whatever we ask.**
> 
> This connection between faith in God and faith in His promise will become clear to us **if we think what faith really is**. It is often compared to the hand or the mouth, **by which we take and appropriate what is offered to us**. But it is of importance that we should understand that **faith is also the ear by which I hear what is promised, the eye by which I see what is offered me**. On this the power to take depends. I must **hear** the person who gives me the promise : the very tone of his voice gives me courage to believe. I must **see** him : in the light of his eye and countenance all fear as to my right to take passes away. **The value of the promise depends on the promiser : it is on my knowledge of what the promiser is that faith in the promise depends.**
> 
> It is for this reason that Jesus, ere He gives that wonderful prayer-promise, first says, " HAVE FAITH IN GOD." That is, let thine eye be open to the Living God, and gaze on Him, seeing Him who is Invisible. **It is through the eye that I yield myself to the influence of what is before me** ; I just allow it to enter, to exert its influence, to leave its impression upon my mind. So **believing God is just looking to God and what He is, allowing Him to reveal His presence, giving Him time and yielding the whole being to take in the full impression of what He is as God, the soul opened up to receive and rejoice in the overshadowing of His love**. Yes, faith is the eye to which God shows what He is and does ; through faith the light of His presence and the workings of His mighty power stream into the soul. **As that which I see lives in me, so by faith God lives in me, too**.
> 
> And even so **faith is also the ear through which the voice of God is always heard and intercourse with Him kept up**. It is **through the Holy Spirit the Father speaks to us ; the Son is the Word, the substance of what God says; the Spirit is the living voice**. This the child of God needs to lead and guide him; **the secret voice from heaven must teach him, as it taught Jesus, what to say and what to do**. An ear opened toward God, that is, **a believing heart waiting on Him to hear what He says, will hear Him speak**. The words of God will not only be the words of a Book, but, proceeding from the mouth of God, **they will be spirit and truth, life and power**. They will bring in deed and living experience what are otherwise only thoughts. **Through this opened ear the soul tarries under the influence of the life and power of God Himself As the words I hear enter the mind and dwell and work there, so through faith God enters the heart, and dwells and works there.**
> 
> When faith now is in full exercise as eye and ear, as the faculty of the soul by which we see and hear God, then it will be able to exercise its full power as hand and mouth, by which we appropriate God and His blessings. The power of reception will depend entirely on the power of spiritual perception. For this reason Jesus said, ere He gave the promise that God would answer believing prayer, "HAVE FAITH IN GOD." **Faith is simply surrender** : I yield myself to the impression the tidings I hear make on me. By faith **I yield myself to the living God**. His glory and love fill my heart, and have the mastery over my life. **Faith is fellowship** ; I give myself up to the influence of the friend who makes me a promise, and become linked to him by it. And it is when we enter into this living fellowship **with God Himself**, in a faith that **always** sees and hears Him, that it becomes easy and natural to believe His promise as to prayer. **Faith in the promise is the fruit of faith in the promiser** ; **the prayer of faith is rooted in the life of faith**. And in this way **the faith that prays effectually is indeed a gift of God**. Not as something that He bestows or infuses at once, but in a far deeper and truer sense, as the blessed disposition or habit of soul which is wrought and grows up in us in a life of intercourse with Him. **Surely for one who knows his Father well, and lives in constant close intercourse with Him, it is a simple thing to believe the promise that He will do the will of His child who lives in union with Himself.**
> 
> **It is because very many of God's children do not understand this connection between the life of faith and the prayer of faith that their experience of the power of prayer is so limited.** When they desire earnestly to obtain an answer from God, they fix their whole heart upon the promise, and try their utmost to grasp that promise in faith. When they do not succeed, they are ready to give up hope ; the promise is true, but it is beyond their power to take hold of it in faith. Listen to the lesson Jesus teaches us this day : HAVE FAITH IN GOD, the Living God; **let faith look to God more than the thing promised; it is His love. His power, His living presence will waken and work the faith**. A physician would say to one asking for some means to get more strength in his arms and hands to seize and hold, that his whole constitution must be built up and strengthened.**So the cure of a feeble faith is alone to be found in the invigoration of our whole spiritual life by intercourse with God**. Learn to believe in God, to take hold of God, to let God take possession of thy life, and it will be easy to take hold of the promise. **He that knows and trusts God finds it easy to trust the promise, too.**
> 
> Just note how distinctly this comes out in the saints of old. **Every special exhibition of the power of faith was the fruit of a special revelation of God**. See it in Abraham: "And **the word of the Lord came** unto Abram, saying. Fear not, Abram; **I am thy shield**. And **He brought him forth** abroad, **and said**… AND HE BELIEVED THE LORD." And later again:"The Lord **appeared unto him, and said** unto him, I am God Almighty. And Abram fell on his face, and **God talked with him**, saying, As for Me, behold my covenant is with thee." **It was the revelation of God Himself that gave the promise its living power to enter the heart and work the faith**. Because they knew God these men of faith could not do anything but trust His promise. **God's promise will be to us what God Himself is**. It is the man who walks before the Lord, and falls upon his face to listen while the living God speaks to him, who will really receive the promise. Though we have God's promises in the Bible, with full liberty to take them, the spiritual power is wanting, except as **God Himself speaks them to us. And He speaks to those who walk and live with Him**. Therefore, HAVE FAITH IN GOD: **let faith be all eye and ear, the surrender to let God make His full impression, and reveal Himself fully in the soul**. Count it one of the chief blessings of prayer to exercise faith in God, as the Living Mighty God, who waits to fulfill in us all the good pleasure of His will, and the work of faith with power. See in Him the God of Love, whose delight it is to bless and impart Himself. In such worship of faith in God the power will speedily come to believe the promise, too: ''ALL THINGS WHATSOEVER YE ASK, BELIEVE THAT YE RECEIVE." Yes, see that thou dost in faith make God thine own; the promise will be thine, too. 
> 
> Precious lesson that Jesus has to teach us this day. **We seek God's gifts ; God wants to give us HIMSELF first**. We think of prayer as the power to draw down good gifts from heaven; Jesus as the means to draw ourselves up to God. We want to stand at the door and cry: Jesus would have us first enter in and realize that we are friends and children. Let us accept the teaching. **Let every experience of the littleness of our faith in prayer urge us first to have and exercise more faith in the living God, and in such faith to yield ourselves to Him. A heart full of God has power for the prayer of faith. Faith in God begets faith in the promise, in the promise too of an answer to prayer**.
> 
> Therefore, child of God, **take time, take time, to bow before Him to wait on Him to reveal Himself. Take time, and let thy soul in holy awe and worship exercise and express its faith in the Infinite One, and as He imparts Himself and takes possession of thee the prayer of faith will crown thy faith in God.**
> 
>  **"LORD, TEACH US TO PRAY."

---

> O my God ! I do believe in Thee. I believe in Thee as the Father, Infinite in Thy Love and Power. And as the Son, my Redeemer and my Life. And as the Holy Spirit, Comforter and Guide and Strength. Three-One God, I have faith in Thee. I know and am sure that all that Thou art Thou art to me, that all Thou hast promised Thou wilt perform.
> 
> **Lord Jesus ! increase this faith. Teach me to take time, and wait and worship in the Holy Presence until my faith takes in all there is in God for me.Let it see Him as the Fountain of all Life, working with Almighty Strength to accomplish His will on the world and in me. Let it see Him in His Love longing to meet and fulfil my desires. Let it so take possession of my heart and life that through faith God alone may dwell there. Lord Jesus, help me! with my whole heart would I believe in God. Let faith in God each moment fill me.** 
> 
> O my Blessed Saviour ! how can Thy Church glorify Thee, how can it fulfil that work of intercession through which Thy kingdom must come, unless our whole life be faith in God. Blessed Lord ! speak Thy Word, " Have faith in God," into the depths of our souls. Amen.

## Music

## Youtube Videos

#YouTube-Creator/Soulful-Devotions/Recognize-This-Powerful-Breakthrough

- [Recognize This Powerful Breakthrough - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xMxufSWctPc)\
#Locusts/Years-Eaten-By\
#Harvest 

> …\
> when someone\
> discovers faith in Christ later in life\
> they often reflect on the previous years\
> with a mixture of regret and gratitude\
> regret for the time they feel they did\
> not live fully and gratitude for\
> Redemption and a fresh start how much\
> Folly I would have avoided they may say\
> thinking of the choices and paths that\
> could have been different how much more\
> good could have been done in my life\
> they reflect considering the missed\
> opportunities to do good and to grow in\
> spirit take heart\
> there is hope because **God can restore**\
> **your lost Locust years** he does so in\
> three ways **God can restore lost years by**\
> **deepening your communion with Christ** God\
> in his infinite wisdom and Grace has the\
> power to redeem and restore the years\
> that seem to have been lost in a\
> person's life through a deeper communion\
> with Christ those who have felt distant\
> or aray can experience a spiritual\
> renewal that not only compensates for\
> lost time but also also enriches the\
> soul with a deeper understanding and\
> appreciation of divine love you will\
> know that I am in the midst of Israel\
> and that I am the Lord your God Joel\
> 2:27 this powerful statement is a\
> reminder that even in the darkest\
> moments God does not abandon us he is\
> always present waiting to welcome us\
> back into his loving arms for those who\
> have suffered greatly whether due to\
> life circumstances or personal choices\
> the promise of communion with the Lord\
> is a source of comfort and hope it is a\
> communion that transcends anything they\
> may have known before richer and more\
> satisfying than formal religious\
> practices Christ the mediator between\
> God and humanity is always ready to\
> restore the years consumed by the Locust\
> of Life as we draw near to him with open\
> and repentant Hearts we can confidently\
> pray **Lord I acknowledge that I have**\
> **spent many years without you many years**\
> **maintaining a painful distance now I ask**\
> **that you fill my heart with a renewed**\
> **love and gratitude for Christ May the**\
> **loss of these years serve to intensify**\
> **my love for you making it stronger than**\
> **it could ever have been restore to me**\
> **Lord the years that the locusts have**\
> **eaten** in making this sincere prayer we\
> can trust that God will hear and respond\
> he can transform our sorrows into Joy\
> our losses into gains and our lost years\
> into years of blessings with God no time\
> is truly lost every moment is an\
> opportunity to grow in Grace in\
> knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus\
> Christ **God can restore lost years by**\
> **multiplying your fruitfulness God**\
> **possesses the extraordinary ability to**\
> **restore the years that seem to have been**\
> **lost by multiplying a person's**\
> **fruitfulness for those whose harvests**\
> **have been devastated** for four\
> consecutive years **God can compensate for**\
> **the years consumed by locusts by**\
> **granting abundant and extraordinary**\
> **Harvest** this Divine generosity reminds\
> us of Jesus parable about the Harvest\
> which can be 30 60 or even 100 times\
> greater than what was sown the\
> difference between these three levels of\
> harvest is immense three years of a h\
> hundredfold Harvest equate to the fruit\
> of a decade of 30-fold harvest it is a\
> scale of productivity that challenges\
> human understanding but is within the\
> reach of God's grace why not ask him for\
> this **Lord the locusts have devoured many**\
> **years of Our Lives you have called us as**\
> **your disciples to produce enduring fruit**\
> **many unfruitful years have passed now**\
> **Lord we ask that you give us some years**\
> **in which more lasting fruits are**\
> **generated than in all our years of**\
> **modest Harvest** by making this request in\
> faith we can trust that the Lord will\
> hear and answer **he can transform years**\
> **of scarcity into years of abundance**\
> **where every effort and every seed**\
> **planted will yield a return far beyond**\
> **expectations with God each year can be a**\
> **year of Bountiful Harvest where the**\
> **fruit not not only grows but also**\
> **thrives and remains it is an invitation**\
> **to live in fullness trusting that God**\
> **will restore and multiply what was lost**\
> **bringing a harvest of blessings that**\
> **reflects the generosity of his heart** God\
> can restore lost years by bringing\
> long-term gain from short-term loss God\
> has the power to transform lost years\
> into long-term gains even from\
> short-term losses the great Trials of\
> Life have a Divine Purpose for the\
> genuiness of your faith being much more\
> precious than gold that perishes though\
> it is tested by fire may be found to\
> praise honor and Glory at the revelation\
> of Jesus Christ 1 Peter 1:7 the praise\
> honor and Glory are directed to Christ\
> for it was his power that protected and\
> sustained US during the most difficult\
> years of Our Lives reflecting on the\
> years that the locusts have eaten years\
> that were stolen I recall the words of\
> Isaiah concerning our lord Jesus he was\
> cut off from the land of the the living\
> Isaiah 53 and 8 here was the Lord Jesus\
> in the prime of life with three years of\
> ministry at the age of 33 one might\
> think that a man launching a new\
> Enterprise at 33 would have everything\
> ahead of him but Isaiah says he was cut\
> off he was cut off because he endured\
> the Judgment of God not for his own sins\
> for he had none but for ours our sins\
> our sorrows our pains were laid upon him\
> our judgment fell upon him our Locust\
> covered him completely the life of God's\
> tender shoot was cut off then on the\
> third day the Son of God rose again with\
> the power of eternal life **he offers**\
> **himself to you and says what no one else**\
> **can say I will restore the years that**\
> **the Locust have eaten** as we contemplate\
> this truth we are invited to trust that\
> God can and will restore the years that\
> have been devastated he can bring\
> significant and Lasting gain from\
> experiences that at first seemed only\
> losses **with God every challenge faced is**\
> **an opportunity to strengthen our faith**\
> **and prepare us to receive the blessings**\
> **he has reserved for us** it is a call to\
> look Beyond immediate difficulties and\
> see the potential for a Bountiful\
> Harvest of Faith love and service that\
> honors Christ and reflects his eternal\
> glory

## Other

### Quotes
