---
Title: 2024-07-27 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 27, 07:47 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 28, 08:56 am
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-27
journal-end-date: 2024-07-27
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 21

#Bible-Character/Paul #Bible-Character/Philip/The-Evangelist/One-of-the-Seven #Bible-Character/Agabus #Bible-Character/Mnason/From-Cyprus/An-Early-Disciple #Bible-Character/James #Bible-Character/Trophimus/the-Ephesian  

#Place/Cos #Place/Rhodes #Place/Patara #Place/Tyre #Place/Ptolemais #Place/Caesarea #Place/Judea #Place/Jerusalem 

- v 4 - … Through the Spirit they kept urging Paul not to go to Jerusalem.
	- *Q* - If this is "through the Spirit", then why "through the Spirit" does Paul go to Jerusalem?  
- v 13 - Then Paul answered, "Whta are you doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready, not only to be tied up, but also to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus."

## Newsletters

### Faith's Checkbook - A Change of Name

#OT/Hosea-2v16-17 

> [!example] **Hosea 2:16-17**
> 
> 16 "In that day,"  
> declares the LORD,  
> "you will call Me 'my Husband (Ishi),'  
> and no longer call Me 'my Master (Baali).'
> 
> 17 For I will remove from her lips the names of the Baals;  
> no longer will their names be invoked.

### Faith's Checkbook - More Than Mere Words

#NT/Acts-13v34

> [!example] **Acts 13:34**
> 
> 34 In fact, God raised Him from the dead, never to see decay. As He has said:
> 
> 'I will give you the holy and sure blessings promised to David.'

- KJV = "I will give you the sure mercies of David"

 > We are sure that the Lord meant His mercy. He did not speak mere words: there is substance and truth in every one of His promises. His mercies are mercies indeed. Even if a promise seems as if it must drop through by reason of death, yet it never shall, for the good Lord will make good His word.  

 > We are sure that the Lord will continue His mercies to His own people. **He does not give and take. What He has granted us is the token of much more.** That which we have not yet received is as sure as that which has already come; therefore, let us wait before the Lord and be still.  

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray

### Twenty-Eighth Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'For Thou Delightest not in Sacrifice, Else Would I Give It: Thou Hast no Pleasure in burnt-offering.' -- Ver 16

> This is the meaning of the word of the prophet, repeated by the Lord Jesus when He said to the Pharisees: 'Go ye and learn what this meaneth, I desire mercy, and not sacrifice.' Not to require and bring sacrifices, -- for that was the characteristic of the old covenant, -- but to show and receive mercy, is the glory of the new covenant.

> And thus one who would fully enjoy the salvation of the gospel must above all endeavour to understand the utterance: 'Thou delightest not in sacrifice.'

> Holiness is not something that we must accomplish. Holiness is only in God, and we become holy only as He makes us partake of His holiness. Christ has been given to us for justification, but just as truly for sanctification. **One who rightly understands that truth, enjoys the salvation of the life of grace as a continuous appropriation and reception of the fullness that is in Christ.** He knows now no longer to represent the life of the divine salvation as a severe and continued sacrifice, but as a glorious experience of what the grace of God in its power and riches works in him.

> **Obedience is better, is something higher than sacrifice: this deeply significant utterance lays bare to us the secret of the true service of God.** Not what man does or brings, although it is also apparently performance of the law, but the childlike disposition of loving subjection, is the true fulfilling of the law.

> Love speaks of no sacrifices. Others may indeed glory in the sacrifices which love brings: love itself does not reckon them to be sacrifices. They are to it a necessity, a delight: they are its life.

> **A disposition like this, which has already acknowledged the gracious attitude of God towards us, also discerns the application to our fellow-men of the word: 'I will have mercy, and not sacrifice.'** It knows how to meet with the fallen in the compassion and tenderness of love, not with the hard requirements and sentences of the law. It understands the secret of the love through which transgressors shall learn God's ways, and sinners shall be converted unto Him. 'Thou delightest not in sacrifice,' is the gospel of personal comfort which in turn is joyfully proclaimed to others.

## Music

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes
