---
Title: 2024-07-14 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 14, 08:43 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 23, 02:48 pm
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-14
journal-end-date: 2024-07-14
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 9

v 1 - Saul was still "breathing" threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord … #Bible-Character/Paul/Persecution-of-Church

- G1709 - empneo #Greek/G1709-empneo
	- to inhale, *i.e.* (figuratively) to be animated by ( bent upon): -- breathe

v 15 - "… Go, because this man is my chosen instrument **to carry my name** before Gentiles … " #Jesus/Name/To-Be-Carried

v 16 - "For I will show him how much he **must** suffer **for the sake of my name**."  
#Jesus/Name/For-the-Sake-Of #Suffering/For-the-Sake-of-Jesus-Name

v 31 - After Saul's conversion - not only his persecution of the church, but the Jewish leaders ceased and the church "had peace, being strengthened." They also were "living in fear of the Lord and the encouragement of the Holy Spirit" and they increased in numbers. #Bible-Character/Paul/Conversion #Persecution/Ceased-For-A-Time #Peace/Living-in #In-God/Strength #Fear/of-the-Lord #Holy-Spirit/Encouragment-of 

v 33 - Peter **found** Aeneas who was paralyzed for eight years. When he found him, he said, "Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you! Get up and make your bed yourself! And **immediately** he got up." #Healing/Lame #Bible-Character/Aeneas #Bible-Character/Peter

- Q - Did Peter go searching for him specifically?  

v 40 - Q - Is Dorcas the first one to be brought back from the dead after Jesus' ascension into heaven? #Healing/Resurrected/Dorcas #Bible-Character/Dorcas

## Newsletters

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray 

### Sixteenth Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'And Blot out All Mine Iniquities' -- Ver 9b

> Do you thoroughly understand what the forgiveness of sins -- **the blotting out of iniquities** -- is?

> Do you understand that the blotting out of all his iniquities is **the first blessing** which God desires to bestow up the sinner who longs to be saved?

> Do you understand that God is prepared to bestow it at once, without further delay or waiting, on **everyone** who receives it trustfully?

> Do you understand that he who simply from the heart appropriates the offered Saviour with His blood, receives it for himself as a thing which comes to him in virtue of God's gift and offer, and that along with Jesus he actually **receives by faith the blotting out of his sins**?

> And do you know further, that by this faith wherewith he receives Jesus on God's word he can certainly know that his sins are really blotted out of God's Book; because the Holy Spirit, as the Spirit of Faith, bears witness to him of this forgiveness?

> And do you understand that this blotting out is perfect and complete, or that by reason of it the soul appears before God '**whiter than snow**,' and can look up to God as a God who is no longer angry with it?

> Do you understand all this, or is it still to you half uncertain?

> And do you feel, when we speak of these things, as one who is still groping in the dark?

> **I beseech you, see that you come to a clear understanding of these points; for, my friend, your eternal salvation is concerned with it.**

> **Are you really seeking for forgiveness and the blotting out of your iniquities**?

> … (are you) known to Him … as one who really seeks for forgiveness (?)

> Can God testify concerning you that you are hungering and thirsting for it?

> Can you say that day by day you are seeking and striving for this grace as a thing that is indispensable?

> Have you, to obtain this forgiveness, abandoned sin, willingly given up the world?

> And are you now with earnest entreaties, even at unusual times … casting yourself before God in order to entreat it from Him, as the one blessing which He has to bestow upon you?

> Yes: are you really seeking it in the house of prayer, in God's word, in the prayer of your own closet, as the one thing for which you are willing to count everything but loss?

> Are you really seeking for it in this fashion?

> … if you can say that you have been seeking for it, then I ask you: Have you indeed found it? Are your sins forgiven? Do you know that, as surely and really as the guilt of your sin was upon you, so you are now really clean in God's sight, because He has blotted out all your iniquities.

> (David) prays for the blotting out of his iniquities with the expectation of obtaining an answer to that prayer, and in the hope that thereafter the joy and the power of a new life would be fulfilled in him; …

> Let your whole soul become fixed upon this one aim -- the blotting out of sin. **Without this blessing there is no salvation**.

## Music

## YouTube Videos

#YouTube-Creator/Alwyn-Uys/Pay-Attention-to/My-Next-Move  
[I heard God say: "Pay Attention to My Next Move"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C2BIf147JqM)

- Another reference to God making moves on a chessboard
- "Did I miss something?"
	- Proverbs 16:9
	- We didn't miss anything
- Once things start moving, He will accelerate things to where they need to be
- Waiting isn't wasting
	- this is where growth and equipping happens

## Other

#OT/1-Samuel-3v19-20

> [!example] **1 Samuel 3:19-20**
> 
> 19 And Samuel grew, and the LORD was with him, **and He let none of Samuel's words fall to the ground.**
> 
> 20 So all Israel from Dan to Beersheba **knew that Samuel was confirmed as a prophet of the LORD.**

### Quotes
