---
Title: 2024-07-21 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 21, 07:16 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 21, 09:24 am
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-21
journal-end-date: 2024-07-21
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 16

#Bible-Character/Paul #Bible-Character/Silas #Bible-Character/Timothy #Bible-Character/Lydia/From-Thyatira  
#Place/Derbe #Place/Lystra #Place/Phrygia #Place/Galatia #Place/Mysia #Place/Bithynia #Place/Troas #Place/Macedonia #Place/Samothrace #Place/Neapolis #Place/Philippi/a-City-of-Macedonia #Place/Thyatira

- v 3 - Paul wanted him to travel with him; so he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews that were in those places, for they all knew that his father was a Greek.
	- Father, I don't understand this. Isn't this a compromise after Paul's stand against this very thing in Antioch, for which he and Barnabas were sent to Jerusalem? Please grant me understanding and insight on this. Thank You.
- v 4 - As they went on their way through the cities, **they delivered to the churches the instructions for them to obey, the instructions that had been written by the apostles and elders in Jerusalem.**
	- This is the whole point of my question on verse 3. Didn't Paul circumcising Timothy cause confusion among the believers?
- v 6 - Paul and his companions went through the regions of Phrygia and Galatia, **since they had been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to proclaim the word in the province of Asia.**
	- Father, I haven't seen anywhere else, either in Your Word, or in current times where **YOU** have forbidden to proclaim the word anywhere.  
	- Are there locations today that You would forbid the proclamation of Your Word?
- b 7 -9 When they came near Mysia, **they attempted to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit of Jesus prevented them.** So passing by Mysia, they came down to the city of Troas. **A vision appeared to Paul in the night: A man of Macedonia was standing there, calling him and saying, 'Come over into Macedonia and help us.'
- v 12 - From there we went to Philippi, which is a city of Macedonia, **the most important city in the district and a Roman colony,** and we stayed in this for several days.
- v 13 - On the Sabbath day **we went outside the gate** by the river, **where we thought there would be a place of prayer.** We sat down and spoke to the women who had come together.
	- the BSB says, "… where it was **customary** to find a place of prayer."
- v 14 - A certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple from the city of Thyatira, who worshiped God, listened to us. **The Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul.** #God/Opens-Hearts/to-Gospel
- v 15 - **When she and her house were baptized**, she urged us, saying, "If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come and stay in (my) house." And she persuaded us. #Baptism/Upon-Beliieving-the-Gospel 
	- Baptized after listening to one message? **The result of God having opened her heart?**
	- She invited them to stay in her home - reminiscent of when Jesus sent his disciples out to prepare the way for Him to come to them; they were to stay in the same house the entire time of their visit.
- v 16 - It came about that, **as we were going to the place of prayer**, a certain young woman who had **a spirit of divination** encountered us. She brought her masters much gain by **fortunetelling**. #Spirit/of-divination/fortunetelling
- v 17 - This woman followed after Paul and us and shouted, saying, "**These men are servants of the Most High God. They proclaim to you the way of salvation."
	- Notice that what she was shouting was the truth. Evil spirits can, and do, speak truth, but for disruptive and/or deceptive reasons.
	- Remember the "interpretation of tongues" in a church service; the content of the interpretation was correct biblically; the issue was that it was not the actual interpretation of the tongues given.
- v 18 **She did this for many days.** But Paul, being greatly annoyed by her, turned and **said to the spirit**, "I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her." And it came out right away.#Command/Come-Out #Deliverance/By-Command/to-the-Spirit
	- Notice that Paul **spoke to the evil spirit, NOT to the woman**. This is important. ("We wrestle not against flesh and blood … )
- v 25 - Around midnight Paul and Silas **were praying and singing hymns to God,** and the other prisoners were listening to them.
	- Think about it … praying and singing hymns after being beaten with many blows with rods.  
- v 26 - Suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken; and immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone's chains were unfastened.
	- God uses earthquakes a LOT
	- Notice that **everyone's** chains were unfastened AFTER they had been listening to Paul and Silas praying and singing hymns. #Signs-and-Wonders 
- v 27-31 - The jailer was awakened from sleep and saw the open prison doors; he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, because he thought that the prisoners had escaped But Paul shouted with a loud voice, saying, "Do not harm yourself, because we are all here." The jailer called for lights and rushed in and **trembling for hear, fell down before Paul and Silas, and brought them out and said, "Sirs, what must I do to be saved?" They said, "Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your house."
	- God attesting signs and wonders caused new converts.
- v 32-33 - They spoke the word of the Lord to him, together with everyone in his house. Then the jailer took them at the same hour of the night, and washed their wounds, **and he and those in his entire house were baptized immediately.**
	- Again, baptism happens immediately after hearing the word accompanied by signs and wonders. #Baptism/Upon-Beliieving-the-Gospel 
- v 37 - But Paul said to them, "They have publicly beaten us without a trial, even though we are Roman citizens -- and they threw us into prison. Do they now want to send us away secretly? No! **Let them come themselves and lead us out."**
- v 38 - The guards reported these words to the magistrates, and **when they heard that Paul and Silas were Romans, they were afraid.**
- v 39 - **The magistrates and apologized to them and brought them out, asking them to go away from the city.**

## Newsletters

### Faith's Checkbook - Shine as Many Stars

> **Daniel 12:3**
> 
> 3 Then the wise will shine like the brightness of the heavens, and those who lead many to righteousness will shine like the stars forever and ever.  

> **Matthew 13:43**
> 
> 43 Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their Father.

*O Lord God, cause me to shine like the brightness of Your heavens; cause me to lead **many** to righteousness - not so that I will shine like the starts, but that as many as possible might be saved before Your coming day of judgment upon the whole earth.!!*

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray

### The Sacrifice of Thanksgiving

> **Psalm 51:13-18**
> 
> 13 Then will I teach transgressors Thy ways;  
> And sinners shall be converted unto Thee.
> 
> 14 Deliver me from blood-guiltiness, O God, Thou God of my salvation;  
> And my tongue shall sing aloud of Thy righteousness.
> 
> 15 O Lord, open Thou my lips;  
> And my mouth shall show forth Thy praise.
> 
> 16 For Thou delightest not in sacrifice, else would I give it;  
> Thou has no pleasure in burnt-offering.
> 
> 17 The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit:  
> A broken and a contrite heart, O God, Thou wilt not despise.
> 
> 18 Do good in Thy good pleasure unto Zion:  
> Build Thou the walls of Jerusalem.  
> Then shalt Thou delight in the sacrifices of righteousness,  
> in burnt-offering, and whole burnt-offering:  
> Then shall they offer bullocks upon Thine altar.

> **From the Scottish Psalter**
> 
> **A broken spirit is to God a pleasing sacrifice**: A broken and a contrite heart, Lord, Thou wilt not despise.

### Twenty-Third Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'Then Will I Teach Transgressor Thy ways.' -- Ver 13a

> Here begins the third chief part of this Psalm. The first was occupied with confession of sin. After this came prayer for the redemption David desired, namely, forgiveness of sin and renewal of the heart by the Spirit of God. And now comes what must always be the fruit of redemption: he will praise the Lord and make known His grace to others: as a servant of God he will yield himself to the great work of teaching transgressors God's ways.

> God must have honour from His work, and this honour is given to Him when a ransomed soul magnifies Him, and makes known the great things which He has done for him.

> To all whom He translates out of the kingdom of darkness He says, 'Ye are the light of the world: let your light shine.'

- See today's Faith's Checkbook - Shine As Many Stars

> **The design of grace is to make you a witness for the love of God, and at the same time a monument of His wonderful goodness.** Let your soul surrender itself to this aim and plan of God, and say in His strength, when you prayer for grace: 'Then will I teach transgressors Thy ways.'

> **Do not imagine, however, that God requires this of you as a debt which you must pay to Him in return for your redemption**. No: if you will only yield yourself to this work in the strength of grace, it will be your greatest joy to say: 'Then will I teach transgressors Thy ways.' 

> Perhaps you ask where and when, to whom and how, you are to teach God's ways. My brother, all this the Lord Himself will make known to you. The constraint of love itself will teach you this.  

## Music

- *Testify of Love*

## YouTube Videos

- [God Will Restore All Your Wasted Years By David Wilkerson - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XyTsqy0RJms)

## Other

### Key Thoughts

- God is going to restore all that has been wasted away
	- He has brought this theme to the forefront four straight days in a row
- **LET your light shine …**

### Quotes
