---
Title: 2024-07-30 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 30, 03:08 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 31, 10:42 am
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-30
journal-end-date: 2024-07-30
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 24

#Bible-Character/Ananias/High-Priest #Bible-Character/Tertullus #Bible-Character/Paul #Bible-Character/Felix/Governor #Bible-Character/Felix #Bible-Character/Drusilla/Wife-of-Felix #Bible-Character/Porcius-Festus/Governor 

## Newsletters

### Faith's Checkbook - Promise of Future Meeting

#NT/John-16v22

> [!note] **John 16:22**
> 
> 22 So also you have sorrow now, **but I will see you again and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take away your joy.**

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray

### Thirty-First Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'Then Shalt Thou Delight in the Sacrifices of Righteousness, in Burnt-offering and Whole Burnt-offering: then Shall They Offer Bullocks upon Thine altar.' -- Ver 19

> … the worth of our religion depends wholly on our relation to God. 

> … the value of all our works is defined by our relation to God. If we are not yet reconciled to God, if we have not yet received the atonement and forgiveness of sins in Christ, then our best works cannot be well-pleasing to God.

> If … we have become the children of God, and the relation betwixt Him and us is at it should be, then He takes delight in our service and our works, and they are acceptable to Him.

> The very same works that, before faith, are worthy to be rejected, are, after faith, and in virtue of it, an acceptable service to God.

> … in all our religion the great question ought to be, whether the Lord takes pleasure in it, or whether our work is well-pleasing to Him…. That we area earnest and zealous in religion avails us little: the great question is whether He takes delight in us and our sacrifice.

> It is not how we pray and what we do that can bring us blessing: but the fact that God accepts our praying and our doing, and sends an answer to it.

> … when God thus takes delight in the sacrifices of righteousness, His people also will take delight in them.

## Music

- *Lord, have Your way in me; I surrender; I want to know You more*
- *Make me a vessel; make me an offering; make me what You want me to be;*
- *Jesus, Your Name is power, Your Name is might; Your Name will break every stronghold; Your Name is LIFE*
- *The Blessing*
- *The Goodness of God*

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes
