---
Title: 2024-07-29 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 29, 05:55 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 29, 08:15 pm
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-29
journal-end-date: 2024-07-29
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 23

#Bible-Character/Paul #Bible-Character/Ananias/High-Priest #Bible-Character/Claudius-Lysias/Captian-of-the-Guard #Bible-Character/Felix/Governor #Bible-Character/Herod Place/Antipatris

## Newsletters

### Faith's Checkbook - He Routs Our Enemy

#OT/Zephaniah-3v15

> [!example] **Zephaniah 3:15**
> 
> The LORD has taken away your punishment;  
> He has turned aback your enemy.  
> Israel's King, the LORD, is among you;  
> no longer will you fear any harm.

> Satan has lost his throne in our nature even as he lost his seat n Heaven. Our Lord Jesus has destroyed the enemy's reigning power over us. He may worry us, but he cannot claim us as his own. His bonds are no longer upon our spirits: the Son has made us free, and we are free indeed.

> Still is the arch-enemy the accuser of the brethren; but even from this position our Lord has driven him. Our advocate silences our accuser. The Lord rebukes our enemies, and pleads the causes of our soul, so that no harm comes of all the devil's revilings.

> As a tempter, the evil spirit still assails us, and insinuates himself into our minds; but thence also is he cast out as to his former preeminence. He wriggles about like serpent, but he cannot rule like a sovereign. He hurls in blasphemous thoughts when he has opportunity; but what a relief it is when he is told to be quiet, and is made to slink off like a whipped cur! Lord, do this for any who are at this time worried and wearied by his barkings. Cast out their enemy, and be thou glorious in their eyes. Thou hast cast him down, Lord cast him out. Oh, that thou wouldst banish him from the world!

### Gary Wilkerson - A Peculiar People

#Quote/Gary-Wilkerson/A-Peculiar-People

#OT/Psalm-4v3

> [!example] **Psalm 4:3**

3 Know that the LORD has set apart the godly for Himself;

> the LORD hears when I call to Him.

> The phrase "set apart" in this verse reflects holiness. This, in turn, indicates the weightiness or substance that comes through living our life in Christ.

> The King James Version of the Bible calls us peculiar in the world's eyes, meaning special or set apart. 'But ye area chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into His marvelous light' (1 Peter 2:9 KJV),

> Two chapters later, Peter revealed the purpose off our peculiarity and its impact. 'With respect to this, they are surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you; but they will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. For this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead, that though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God does.' (1 Peter 4:4-6, ESV).

> This should encourage you never to compromise your stand for righteousness nor lose your testimony as a counter-cultural Christian. Distresses will come from a mocking, slandering, cruel world, but you have been set apart by God himself, whose purpose is revealed by the Spirit.

> … As a set-apart people, we are called to show God's glory, to demonstrate that something amazing exists that is different from anything the world has to offer.

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray

### Thirtieth Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'Do God in Thy Good Pleasure unto Zion: Build Thou the Walls of Jerusalem.' -- Ver 18

> The true suppliant is also an intercessor.  

> … the true intercessors for the Church of God are those who have first learned to pray for themselves. Personal need is the school in which true intercessors are brought up. It is in the confession of personal sins, in the conflict for the assurance of a person interest in God's grace, that the secret of believing intercession is learned.

> The sinner must first of all feel as if he were the only one with whom God had to do. He must attain to dealing with God for himself alone: then he will learn to understand the grace of God, and know how to plead for this blessing in behalf of the people and the city of the Lord.

> He then obtains, not only courage to speak of God to his fellow-men, but also delight in the work; he feels, too, that he has power to speak and plead with God in behalf of his fellow-men.

> Grace is not self-seeking. The love of God shed abroad in the heart works love to God's people and Church.  

> It is a part of the wonderful honour which the grace of God bestows, that God makes us fellow-workers with Him, and that He would use us in awakening, not only men, but also Himself.

> Mindful of the terrible power of sin to carry infection and desolation far beyond the sphere in which it had its origin, the intercessor entreats the Lord to turn aside the dreaded evil, and, notwithstanding his sin, to do good to Zion according to His good pleasure.

> It is to God's good pleasure in Zion that intercessors appeal when they ask Him to do good to her.

> Our strongest argument in prayer is the being and the heart of God.  

## Music

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes
