---
Title: 2024-07-15 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 15, 06:50 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 19, 08:35 am
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-15
journal-end-date: 2024-07-15
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 10

- v 14 - But Peter said, "Certainly not, Lord! **For I have never eaten anything common and unclean!**" #Bible-Character/Peter/Vision-of-Unclean-Animals
- v 15 - … '**The things which God has made clean, you must not consider unclean!**'
- v 28 - … "You know that it is forbidden for a Jewish man to associate with or to approach a foreigner. And to me **God has shown that I should call no man common or unclean."**
- v 33 - … "So now we all are present before God to hear all the things that have been commanded to you by the Lord."
- v 34-35 - … "In truth I understand that God is not one who shows partiality, but in every nation the one who fears him and who does what is right is acceptable to him."
- v 42 - "And he commanded us to preach to the people and to testify solemnly that this one is the one appointed by God as judge of the living and of the dead." #Jesus/Judge/of-the-Living-and-the-Dead #Jesus/Appointed/as-Judge
- v 43 - "To this one all the prophets testify, that **through his name** everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins." #Jesus/Name/Believers/Receive-Forgiveness
- v 44-46 Holy Spirit fell on Gentiles; Jews were astonished that the gift was poured out on them; the reason they knew the Holy Spirit had fallen on them was because "**for they heard them speaking in tongues and glorifying God…."
- v 48 - Peter ordered that the Gentile believers be baptized **in the name of Jesus Christ**.  

## Newsletters

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray 

### The Prayer For Renewal

> 10 Create in me a clean heart, O God,  
> and renew a right spirit within me.
> 
> 11 Cast me not away from Your presence;  
> take not Your Holy Spirit from me.
> 
> 12 Restore to me the joy of Your salvation,  
> and sustain me with a willing spirit.

### Seventeenth Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'Create in Me a Clean Heart, O God' -- Ver 10a

> (David) feels that there are two ways in which the unclean can become clean before God. The one is when he is washed and cleansed from his guilt in the blood of Jesus, judicially acquitted. The other, when he is renewed and inwardly changed, and receives a new and clean heart in place of the old and unclean.

> The one cleanness is a root, the other is a fruit. The one goes first, the other follows after.

> … the first, the cleansing of the blood of Christ, is bestowed before you can inwardly receive the second, and that only he who receives and accepts the first shall have the power to obtain the second.

> The desire of the true suppliant must, above all things, go forth towards in ward purity.

> This clean heart must also be your expectation. God the Creator is also God the Renewer. He can do this. As the work of the first creation was not completed at once, but step by step, so also will it be with the renewal. The holy God can perform this work. He can make the unclean heart clean. It is not too wonderful for Him. **This is what grace will do for you.** Let your sure expectation reach out to this blessing.

> God is pure, God is holy, and **no prayer will be more welcome to Him than that He should make you holy also.**  

## Music

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes
