---
Title: 2024-07-16 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 16, 08:37 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 16, 09:51 am
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-16
journal-end-date: 2024-07-16
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 11

#Scattered/Because-of/Persecution

- v 19 - "… those who had been scattered because of the persecution …"

Father, is this how You are going to move Your people to those places where they need to be? If so, cause us to remember that You are Lord, even in the scattering, specifically so that we will be exactly where You want / need us to be.

## Newsletters

### Faith's Checkbook - Word to Him Who Halts

> Zephaniah 3:19 NKJV
> 
> Behold, **at that time** I will deal with **all** who afflict you; **I will save the lame (halt),** And gather those who were driven out; I will appoint them for praise and fame in every land where they were put to shame.

> … In saving us He will greatly glorify Himself. Everybody will ask - How came this lame woman to run the race and win the crown? And then the praise will all be given to almighty grace.

> Lord, though I halt in faith, in prayer, in praise, in service, and in patience, save me, I beseech thee! Only thou canst save such a cripple as I am. Lord, let me not perish because I am among the hindmost, but gather up by thy grace the slowest of thy pilgrims -- even me. Behold He hath said it shall be so, and therefore, like Jacob, prevailing in prayer, I go forward though my sinew be shrunk.

### David Wilkerson - Distractions in the Holy Place

> The Lord said to Aaron, "I will not be treated as an ordinary person. If you're going to come into my presence, you must come before me sanctified. All who approach my holiness must do so with carefulness and thoughtfulness because of my glory and majesty."

> Those who have learned to worship and focus privately bring their own fire; a fire ignited in the secret closet of prayer.  

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray

### Eighteenth Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'And Renew a Steadfast Spirit within me.'-- Ver 10b

*steadfast* - H3559 kun
- to be firm, be stable, be established
	- to be set up, be established, be fixed
		- to be firmly established
		- to be established, be stable be secure, be enduring
		- to be fixed, be securely determined
	- **to be directed aright, be fixed aright, be steadfast** (moral sense)
	- to prepare, be ready
	- to be prepared, be arranged, be settled
	- to establish, set up, accomplish, do, make firm
	- to fix, make ready, prepare, provide, provide for, furnish
	- to direct toward (moral sense)
	- to arrange, order
- to be established, be fastened
- to be prepared, be ready
- to constitute, make
- to fix
- to direct
- to be established, be prepared
- to be established, by restored

> (David) desires, not only the new life with the clean heart, but also **a steadfast spirit**.

> The creation of God was not completed in one day: so also in the creation of clean heart, **time is needed before everything is finished**, and man enters upon his Sabbath, his divine rest.

> … **man must willingly cooperate with God,** so it is necessary that he should with a steadfast spirit surrender himself to the Lord and His work.

> The beginning of the new creation does not depend upon a steadfast spirit, but certainly the progress of it does, and also the greater or less glory with which the creation shall be brought to completion.

> Steadfast is the opposite of weak, uncertain, changeable, variable. What stands fast cannot be moved or overthrown. Such a spirit **must be asked for from God in prayer.**

> In Hebrew the word '**believe**' just means **to continue steadfast**.  

> … it must be by faith or **cleaving fast to God** that man can become steadfast.

> … the more that you cleave to God and commit yourself to His word and counsel, the more steadfast shall you stand.

> Let the word of God be your food: let it be inwardly assimilated and appropriated by you; let it penetrate you wholly; let it be flesh and blood to your spirit. Strive by it to think what God thinks, to will what God wills, in everything to be of the same mind that God is, to grow by Hos word in you, to have it dwelling in you; then you shall be established. **In all your wishes and expectations, in all your desires and efforts, let what God has said be your rule**, and a steadfast spirit will be renewed in you.

> And whence was it, too, that Caleb and Joshua stood so firmly in the midst of the hundreds of thousands of Israel? **They held fast by the word of God**.

> And if you would know further how a steadfast spirit will manifest itself, the answer is not difficult: **in the resoluteness of a steadfast will exercising dominion over the spirit and the walk**.

> Let it therefore be a continual prayer with you: '**Make my footsteps steadfast in Thy word, and let' -- observe what shall be the fruit of this -- and 'let not any iniquity have dominion over me.'**

## Music

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes
