---
Title: 2024-07-23 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 23, 06:11 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 24, 08:27 am
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-23
journal-end-date: 2024-07-23
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 18

#Bible-Character/Paul #Bible-Character/Silas #Bible-Character/Timothy #Bible-Character/Aquila-and-Priscilla #Bible-Character/Titius-Justus #Bible-Character/Crispus/Leader-of-the-Synagogue #Bible-Character/Gallio/Governor-of-Achaia #Bible-Character/Sosthenes/Ruler-of-the-Synagogue #Bible-Character/Apollos/an-Alexandrian-by-Birth  

#Place/Corinth #Place/Pontus #Place/Syria #Place/Cenchrea #Place/Ephesus #Place/Caesarea #Place/Antioch #Place/Galatia #Place/Phrygia #Place/Achaia 

- v 4 - So Paul reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath. He persuaded both Jews and Greeks.
- v 5 - But when Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, **Paul was compelled by the Spirit to testify to the Jews that Jesus was the Christ.**
	- *Q* - Was Paul "reasoning" in the flesh in v 4? If not, what is the difference between his reasoning in v 4 and being compelled by the Spirit in v 5?
- v 6 - When the Jews opposed and insulted him, Paul shook out his garment at them and said to them, "May your blood be upon your own heads; I am innocent. From now on I will go to the Gentiles."
	- This is very similar to what Jesus told the disciples to do if a place they went to prepare the way before Him refused and rejected their message. *i.e.* - Shake the dust off your feet as a testimony against them, and to let their peace return to them. (Matthew 10:5-15; Mark 6:7-13; Luke 9:1-6)
- v 27 - When he (Apollos) desired to pass over into Achaia, the brothers encouraged him and wrote to the disciples in Achaia to weclome him. When he arrived, he greatly helped **those who believed by grace.** #Believe/By-Grace

## Newsletters

### Faith's Checkbook - Absolutely No Rememberance

#NT/Hebrews-10v17

> [!note] **Hebrews 10:17**
> 
> 17 Then He adds:  
> "Their sins and lawless acts  
> I will remember no more." (Jeremiah 31:34)

- A Covenant Promise
	- I will remember (your) sins and lawless acts no more.

> Our God ignores our sin now that the sacrifice of Jesus has ratified the covenant. We may rejoice in Him without fear that He will be provoked to anger against us because of our iniquities. See! He puts us among this children; He accepts us as righteous; He takes delight in us as if we were perfectly holy. He even puts us into places of trust; makes us guardians of His honor, trustees of the crown jewels, stewards of the gospel. He counts us worthy, and gives us a ministry; this the highest and most special proof that He does not remember our sins.

### David Wilkerson - God Is Making Investments

#Teacher/David-Wilkerson/God-Is/Making-Investments 

> Everything you go through as a Christian is a training exercise behind which God has a divine purpose. He did not save you so that you could cruise into paradise on a luxury liner; he saved you to prepare you to be of use in his kingdom. The moment you were born again, he enrolled you in his school of suffering. Every affliction and trial is another lesson in the curriculum.

> … God wants veterans of spiritual warfare, people who have been through many afflictions, to prove his faithfulness to the next generation. 'Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all" (Psalm 34:19, NKJV)' Ever affliction we endure is an investment the Lord is making us as his veterans.

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray

### Twenty-Fifth Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'Deliver Me from Blood-guiltiness, O God, Thou God of My Salvation' -- Ver 14a

> … **the living personal experience of grace is a certain power in work for others.** The soul must be steadfast in the enjoyment of its own redemption. There must not merely be the remembrance of forgiveness and grace, experienced at an earlier stage: this is not enough. There must be every day anew the divine assurance that we ourselves are redeemed by God. There must be a living consciousness of redemption as a present fact, a continually renewed, an ever fresh exercise of fellowship with the God of redemption.

> **The soul that does not thus know God cannot make Him known with power to others.**

## Music

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes
