---
Title: 2024-07-09 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 09, 07:17 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 23, 02:40 pm
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-09
journal-end-date: 2024-07-09
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 4

#Jesus/Name/Reactions-To

Things that stood out …

The world opposes the Name of Jesus, and do not want anyone to teach or preach in His Name … even when they cannot refute the miraculous healings, signs and wonders done in His Name. #Healing/Lame #Persecution/For-Preaching-the-Gospel

This still continues to this day … all religions are "tolerated" except those who teach, preach and do miraculous signs and wonders in His Name. And they call us the "intolerant" ones.  

### Jesus' Name, and Faith In His Name

#Jesus/Name/Faith-In

also see Acts 3:16

#### Reactions To His Name

#Jesus/Name/Reactions-To 

- priests, captain of the temple and Sadducees **were greatly annoyed** because Peter and John were #Bible-Character/Peter #Bible-Character/John-the-Apostle 
	- teaching the people
	- proclaiming the resurrection from the dead **IN JESUS** #Resurrection/From-the-Dead #Jesus/Name/Power-of/To-Heal
- rulers, elders and scribes, Annas the high priest and those from his family interrogated Peter and John about #Bible-Character/Annas
	- **by what power**
	- **or what name**  
	did they heal the lame man
- Peter declared 
	- ".. **by the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene** … the man had been healed"
	- Jesus is the rejected Cornerstone #Jesus/the-Cornerstone
	- there is no other name 
		- under heaven
		- that is given among men
	- by which we **must be** saved

#### Healing in Jesus' Name Could Not Be Refuted

#Healing/In-Jesus-Name #Jesus/Name/Healing

- "And because they saw the man who had been healed standing there with them, they had nothing to say in return."
- "For that a remarkable sign has taken place through them is evident to all those who live in Jerusalem, and we are not able to deny it." #Place/Jerusalem

#### Even So - They Forbid Apostles Teaching In Jesus' Name

#Gospel/Forbidden/to-be-Taught

- "But in order that it may not spread much further among the people, let us warn them to speak no more in this name to anyone at all."
- "… they … commanded them not to speak or to teach at all in the name of Jesus."

While reading this narrative, it seems like the high priest, his family, and the other leaders had no memory of Jesus, or the healings He had performed before they had put Him to death.  

I also noted that they did not refute Peter's claim that God had raised Jesus from the dead. Elsewhere in Scripture is reports that they had paid the Roman soldiers to claim that the apostles had stolen His body in order to refute the claim that He had been risen from the dead.

#### Kings and Rulers Reaction Foretold By David

- "Why do the nations rate, and the peoples conspire in vain? The kings of the earth stood opposed, and the rulers assembled together at the same place, against the Lord and against His Christ."

### Prayer

- "And now, Lord, concern Yourself with their threats and grant your slaves to speak Your message with all boldness, as You extend Your hand to heal and signs and wonders are performed **through the name** of Your holy servant Jesus."
- "And with great power the apostles were giving testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was on them all."

## Newsletters

### David Wilkerson - *The Boldness of a Lion*

#Teacher/David-Wilkerson/The-Boldness/of-a-Lion  
#OT/Proverbs-28v1  
#Righteous/Are-Bold/As-A-Lion  
#Wicked/Flee/When/No-one-Pursues

> [!example] **Proverbs 28:1**
> 
> 1 The wicked flee when no one pursues, but **the righteous are as bold as a lion.**

#Quote/David-Wilkerson/I-DO-Have-Righteousness-of-Jesus-Christ  

> It is time to stop your struggling. If the devil comes to you and says, "You're no good. You have no righteousness", you can answer, "I know I'm no good. I have no righteousness in myself, but **I do have the righteousness of Jesus Christ.** I've failed God, but I have an advocate with the Father: Jesus Christ the righteous." --**David Wilkerson, The Boldness of a Lion**

#Quote/David-Wilkerson/Holiness/Only-Possible-When-Inheritance-Lain-Hold-Of

> Walking in true holiness is possible only **to those who have laid hold of their inheritance,** which is Christ's perfect righteousness, because they are no longer imprisoned by fear and condemnation. -- **David Wilkerson, The Boldness of a Lion**

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray 

### Eleventh Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'And in the Hidden part Thou Shalt Make Me to Know Wisdom' -- Ver 6b

> … the true knowledge of the way of grace must be sought from God Himself.

> For without clear knowledge faith cannot be clear and powerful and joyful.  

> "Thou shalt make me* to know wisdom." God gives the wisdom.

> Conversion, faith, is not a work that you must do, and on which you can look back and say, 'That is well done.' No: the innermost essence of conversion and faith consists in coming **to God** in surrender **to God**, in receiving **from God**, grace to be worked out by Him, in being washed and purified from sin by Him.

> … in grace the principal element is that we must come into contact with the living God, and must experience the power of the Almighty.

## Music

- Robin Marks - "Lord Have Mercy"
- Michael W Smith - "You're All I Want, You're All I've Ever Needed"

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes
