---
Title: 2024-07-25 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 25, 05:29 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 25, 03:25 pm
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-25
journal-end-date: 2024-07-25
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 20

#Bible-Character/Paul #Bible-Character/Sopater/son-of-Pyrrhus/from-Berea #Bible-Character/Aristarchus #Bible-Character/Secundus #Bible-Character/Gaius/of-Derbe #Bible-Character/Timothy #Bible-Character/Tychicus #Bible-Character/Trophimus/from-Asia #Bible-Character/Eutychus  
#Place/Macedonia #Place/Greece #Place/Syria #Place/Troas #Place/Philippi #Place/Assos #Place/Mitylene #Place/Chios #Place/Samos #Place/Miletus #Place/Ephesus #Place/Jerusalem  

- v 7 - "On the first day of the week, when we were gathered together to break bread …" #First-Day/-of-the-Week/Gathered-to-Break-Bread #Communion
- v 32 - Now I entrust you to God an to the word of his grace which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are being sanctified. #Entrust/to-God #Entrust/to-Word-of-His-Grace #Grace/Is-Able/to-Build-Up #Grace/Is-Able/to-Give/Inheritance-of-the-Sanctified
- v 34 - You yourselves know that these hands served my own needs **and the needs of those who were with me**. #Provision   
	- Confirmation that when I pray for provision, that it includes those to whom God gives us as helpers. 
- v 35 - **In all things I gave you an example of how you should help the weak by working,** and of how you should remember the words of the Lord Jesus, word that he himself said, "**It is more blessed to give than to receive**."

## Newsletters

### Faith's Checkbook - Nothing to Alarm Us

#OT/Daniel-12v13

> [!example] **Daniel 12:13**
> 
> 13 But as for you, go on your way until the end. You will rest, and will arise to your inheritance at the end of the days.

### David Wilkerson - The Best Is Yet Ahead

#Teacher/David-Wilkerson/The-Best/is-Yet-Ahead

> God is not satisfied with a heartfelt "thank you" from us. Rather, he says, "Wait just a moment, my child. I did not bring you through all those troubles and afflictions just to make you a grateful overcome. I've spent years training you, putting you through all these things for a purpose, and I'm not going to let you waste them now. I fully intend for my investment to pay off. I tell you that your best work is ahead of you!"

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray

### Twenty-Seventh Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'O Lord, Open Thou My Lips; and My Mouth Shall Show forth Thy praise.' -- Ver 15

> … along with the forgiveness of sins and the renewal of the life, **grace will also give the opening of the lips**; and that the continued prayer: 'Have mercy upon me, O God; open my lips,' will obtain a sure and blessed hearing.

## Music

- *My God never fails; … I'm going to see a victory; the battle belongs to the Lord; … I'm not backing down from any giants*
- *No one stands alone*
- *I want to be close to You*
- *You are holy, holy, holy, God
- *The Love of God*

## YouTube Videos

## Other

#OT/Psalm-112

> [!example] **Psalm 112**  
The Blessed Fear of the LORD  
(Psalm 128:1–6)
> 
> 1 Hallelujah!<sup>a</sup>  
> Blessed is **the man who fears the LORD**,  
> who **greatly delights in His commandments**.
> 
> 2 **His descendants will be mighty in the land;**  
> **the generation of the upright will be blessed.**
> 
> 3 **Wealth and riches are in his house,**  
> **and his righteousness endures forever.**
> 
> 4 **Light dawns in the darkness** for the upright—  
> for the gracious, compassionate, and righteous.
> 
> 5 **It is well** with **the man who is generous and lends freely**,>  
> **whose affairs are guided by justice.**
> 
> 6 Surely he will **never** be shaken;  
> the righteous man **will be remembered forever**.
> 
> 7 **He does not fear bad news**;  
> **his heart is steadfast, trusting in the LORD.**
> 
> 8 **His heart is assured; he does not fear,**  
> **until he looks in triumph on his foes.**
> 
> 9 He has scattered abroad his gifts to the poor;  
> **his righteousness endures forever**;<sup>b</sup>  
> **his horn will be lifted high in honor**.
> 
> 10 **The wicked man will see and be grieved;**  
> **he will gnash his teeth and waste away;**  
> **the desires of the wicked will perish.**
> 
> **Footnotes:**
> 
> 1 a Or Hallelu YAH , meaning Praise the LORD . This psalm is an acrostic poem, each line beginning with the successive letters of the Hebrew alphabet.  
> 9 b Cited in 2 Corinthians 9:9

> [!example] **Psalm 119**
> 
> 5 Oh, that my ways were committed  
> to keeping Your statutes!
> 
> 10 With all my heart I have sought You;  
> do not let me stray from Your commandments.
> 
> 17 **Deal bountifully with Your servant,  
> that I may live and keep Your word.**
> 
> 18 **Open my eyes that I may see  
> wondrous things from Your law.**
> 
> 25 My soul cleaves to the dust;  
> revive me according to Your word.
> 
> 26 I recounted my ways, and You answered me;  
> teach me Your statutes.
> 
> 27 Make clear to me the way of Your precepts;  
> then I will meditate on Your wonders.
> 
> 28 My soul melts with sorrow;  
> strengthen me according to Your word.
> 
> 29 Remove me from the path of deceit  
> and graciously grant me Your law.
> 
> 30 I have chose the way of truth;  
> I have set Your ordinances before me.
> 
> 31 I cling to Your testimonies, O LORD;  
> let me not be put to shame.
> 
> 32 I run in the path of Your commandments,  
> for **You will enlarge my heart**.
> 
> 33 Teach me, O LORD, the way of Your statues,  
> and I will keep them to the end.
> 
> 34 Give me understanding that I may obey Your law,  
> and follow it with all my heart.
> 
> 35 Direct me in the path of Your commandments,  
> for there I find delight.
> 
> 36 Turn my heart to Your testimonies  
> and not to covetous gain.
> 
> 37 Turn my eyes away from worthless things;  
> revive me with Your word.
> 
> 38 Establish Your word to Your servant,  
> to produce reverence for You.
> 
> 39 Turn away the disgrace I dread,  
> for Your judgments are good.
> 
> 40 How I long for Your precepts!  
> Revive me in Your righteousness.
> 
> 43 Never take Your word of truth from my mouth,  
> for I hope in Your judgments.
> 
> 49 **Remember Your word to Your servant,  
> upon which You have given me hope.**
> 
> 66 **Teach me good judgment and knowledge,  
> for I believe in Your commandments.**
> 
> 67 Before I was afflicted, I went astray;  
> but now I keep Your word.
> 
> 82 My eyes fail, looking for Your promise;  
> I ask, "When will You comfort me?"
> 
> 84 How many days must Your servant wait?  
> When will You execute judgment on my persecutors?
> 
> 85 The arrogant have dug pits for me  
> in violation of Your law.
> 
> 86 All Your commandments are faithful;  
> I am persecuted without case --help me!
> 
> 87 They almost wiped me from the earth,  
> but I have not forsaken Your precepts.
> 
> 88 Revive me according to Your loving devotion,  
> that I may obey the testimony of Your mouth.
> 
> 89 Your word, O LORD, is everlasting;  
> it is firmly fixed in the heavens.
> 
> 90 Your faithfulness continues through all generations;  
> You established the earth, and it endures.
> 
> 91 Your ordinances stand to this day,  
> **for all things are servants to You.**
> 
> 126 **It is time for the LORD to act,  
> for they have broken Your law.**
> 
> 132 Turn to me and show me mercy,  
> as You do to those who love Your name.
> 
> 133 Order my steps in Your word;  
> let no sin rule over us.
> 
> 134 Redeem me from the oppression of man,  
> that I may keep Your precepts.
> 
> 135 Make Your face shine upon Your servant,  
> and teach me Your statutes.
> 
> 136 My eyes shed streams of tears  
> because Your law is not obeyed.
> 
> 139 My zeal has consumed me  
> because my foes forget Your words.

### Quotes
