---
Title: 2024-07-08 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 08, 07:57 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 23, 02:45 pm
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-08
journal-end-date: 2024-07-08
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 3:10 - 26

Things which stood out to me …

#NT/Acts-3v21  
#Jesus/Heaven/Must-Take-Him/Until-Restoration/of-All-Things

> [!example] **Acts 3:21**  
> 21 **Heaven MUST take Him in until** the time comes for the restoration of all things, which God announced long ago through His Holy prophets.

#NT/Acts-3v26

> [!example] **Acts 3:26**  
> When God raised up His Servant, **He sent Him first to you** to bless you by turning each of you from your wicked ways.

Peter obviously was speaking by / through the Holy Spirit because he didn't yet know that the Gospel was to be preached to the Gentiles, too. See Acts 10 #Bible-Character/Peter 

 

## Newsletters

#Teacher/David-Wilkerson/Are-You/Ready-to-Fight  
Wilkerson Newsletter - Are you ready to fight.

## Devotions

*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray  
#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me

### Tenth Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'Behold, Thou Desirest Truth in the inward Parts' -- Ver 6a

> This thought summons us to earnestness and godly fear in our sense of sin. **By nature we run so much risk of dwelling more on the outward manifestation of sin than upon its hidden root and power.**

> Love to God must fill the whole heart. **If anything be lacking, then we stand guilty and condemned before God. He cannot be content with less than perfect holiness: a terrible thought this for the awakened soul.**

> This thought gives hope and comfort in the way of conversion. **Nothing less will God have from the awakened soul: nothing more will the grace of God require from the penitent.**

> For the anxious sinner … this is the highest sincerity, that he should present himself to God with all his misery, that he should confess himself to be just what he is. He who confesses his sin certainly receives mercy.  

> When you appear before God … make confession of what you think, and feel, and do. Hide nothing from the Lord. Seek not to cloak your sin. Acknowledge the whole truth about your condition of sin and misery. God desires truth in the inward parts, and will not withhold His grace from you.

> This thought strengthens faith for glorious expectations.

> Thou desirest truth in the inward parts: this it makes a ground of pleading on which it entreats that God Himself would work out that process in which He has delight. And this word of David becomes thus the source of the most glorious expectations.
> 
> And if you find that there is nothing good in you, that the more you strive after truth the less you find it, be assured that in all such experience the acknowledgement of this misery is already the truth which God desires. And when He has wrought this in you, so also will He bestow it upon you amidst all the spiritual conflict that remains.

## Music

## YouTube Videos

#YouTube-Creator/Alwyn-Uys/God/Woke-Me-Up/at-3-33am   
**Source** - <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rl6s8uRTZTY>

#NT/1-Corinthians-15v36 

> [!example] **1 Corinthians 15:36**  
> You fool! What you sow does not come to life unless it dies.  

Put away the past; let it die  
This ties into yesterday's "SACRIFICIAL LIVING" 

#OT/Jeremiah-33v3 

> [!example] **Jeremiah 33:3**
> 
> 3 Call to Me, and I will answer and show you great and unsearchable things you do not know.

## Other

### Quotes
