---
Title: 2024-07-31 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 31, 10:42 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 31, 11:36 am
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-31
journal-end-date: 2024-07-31
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 25

#Bible-Character/Porcius-Festus #Bible-Character/King-Agrippa-and-Bernice #Bible-Character/Paul  
#Place/Caesarea #Place/Jerusalem 

- v 8 - Paul makes a distinction between "the law of the Jews" and "the temple" #NT/Acts-25v8

> [!example] **Acts 25:8**
> 
> 8 Paul defended himself and said, "I have done nothing wrong **against the law of the Jews** or **against the temple** or **against Caesar.**"

### Acts 26

#Bible-Character/King-Agrippa #Bible-Character/Paul  
#Place/Jerusalem 

### Acts 27

#Bible-Character/Paul #Bible-Character/Julius/of-the-Imperial-Regiment #Bible-Character/Aristarchus/from-Thessalonica/in-Macedonia  
#Place/Italy #Place/adramyttium #Place/Sidon #Place/Cyprus #Place/Cilicia #Place/Pamphylia #Place/Myra/a-City-of-Lycia #Place/Cnidus #Place/Crete #Place/Salmone #Place/Fair-Havens/Near-the-City-of-Lasea #Place/Phoenix/a-Harbor-in-Crete #Place/Crete #Place/Cauda #Place/Syrtis #Place/Adriatic-Sea  

### Acts 28

#Bible-Character/Paul #Bible-Character/Publius  
#Place/Malta #Place/Syracuse #Place/Rhegium #Place/Puteoli #Place/Forum-of-Appius #Place/The-Three-Taverns #Place/Rome

## Newsletters

### Faith's Checkbook - An Appeal; Deliverance

#OT/Psalm-50v15

> [!example] **Psalm 50:15**
> 
> 15 Call upon Me in the day of trouble;  
> I will deliver you, and you will honor Me.

> We ought not to need the exhortation: it should be our constant habit all the day and every day.  

> How foolish to go running about to men! The Lord invites us to lay our case before Him, and surely we will not hesitate to do so.

> Here is reassuring encouragement: "I will deliver thee." Whatever the trouble may be, the Lord makes no exceptions, but promises full, sure, happy deliverance. He will Himself work out our deliverance by His own hand. We believe it, and the Lord honors faith.

> Here is an ultimate result: "Thou shalt glorify me." … When He has delivered us we will loudly praise Him; and as He is sure to do it, let us begin to glorify Him at once.

## Devotions

## Music

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes
