---
Title: 2024-07-10 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 10, 08:02 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 19, 08:17 am
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-10
journal-end-date: 2024-07-10
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 5

Things that stood out …

- After the death of Ananias and Saphira a great fear came on all those who heard about them. #Holy-Spirit/Lying-to #Bible-Character/Ananias-and-Saphira #Fear/of-the-Lord
- Going to add asking the Lord that the fear of Him would once again fall upon the peoples.
- "It is necessary to obey God rather than men!"
- God has exalted Jesus to His right hand …
	- as Leader (Prince) and Savior
	- to grant repentance
	- and forgiveness of sins

## Newsletters

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray 

### THE PRAYER FOR FORGIVENESS

> 7 Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.  
> 8 Make me to hear joy and gladness; that the bones which Thou hast broken may rejoice.  
> 9 Hide Thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities.

### Twelfth Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'Purge Me with Hyssop, and I Shall Be clean.' -- Ver 7a

#NT/Hebrews-9v13-14  
#Jesus/Blood/Cleanses-and-Purifies

> [!example] **Hebrews 9:13-14**
> 
> 13 For if the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a heifer sprinkled on those who are ceremonially unclean sanctify them so that their bodies are clean, 
> 
> 14 how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself unblemished to God, purify our consciences from works of death, so that we may serve the living God!

> David … prayed that God might fulfill (purification) in him. He felt that his sin had brought him under the power of death, and that **he was unprepared to serve the living God until he was first cleansed by God Himself**.

> Let us reflect what David's prayer … can teach us … And it teaches us, first of all, **how indispensable this cleansing is**.  

> And David's prayer teaches us further **that this purifying is to be found.**

O Lord God, I pray that You would indeed purge me and cleanse me; I pray that You will sprinkle me with the Blood of Jesus. Cause me to experience the power of this act of cleansing from all my sin.

O my Lord God, You are so gracious to me. You are so merciful and kind to undeserving wretched sinners; yet You love us so much that You have provided the means whereby we may be cleansed of all our filthiness and sin in order that we might be brought back into fellowship with You. O Holy God … Thank You. Thank You.

## Music

- Open the eyes of my heart, Lord; I want to see You.
- Amazing Love

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes
