---
Title: 2024-08-01 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 August 01, 05:33 am
Date-Modified: 2024 August 01, 07:45 am
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-08-01
journal-end-date: 2024-08-01
journal-section: day
---
## Newsletters

### Faith's Checkbook - Covenant Reaches Children

#OT/Genesis-17v7

> [!note] **Genesis 17:7**  
> 7 I will establish My covenant as an everlasting covenant between Me and you **and your descendants after you**, to be your God and **the God of your descendants after you.**

> O Lord, thou has made a covenant with me, thy servant, in Christ Jesus my Lord; **and now, I beseech thee, let my children be included in its gracious provisions.** Permit me to believe this promise as made to me as well as to Abraham. **I know, that my children are born in sin, and shapen in iniquity, even as those of other men,; therefore, I ask nothing on the ground of their birth, for well I know that "that which is born of the flesh is flesh," and nothing more. Lord, make them to be born under thy covenant of grace by thy Holy Spirit!
> 
> I pray for my descendants throughout ALL generations. Be thou their God as thou art mine. My highest honor is that thou has permitted me to serve thee; may my offspring serve thee in all years to come. O God of Abraham, be the God of his Isaac! O God of Hannah, accept her Samuel! 
> 
> If, Lord, thou has favored me in my family, I pray thee remember other households of thy people which remain unblest. Be the God of all the families of Israel. Let not one of those who fear thy name be tried wit ha godless and wicked household, for thy Son Jesus Christ's sake. Amen.

## Devotions

### With Christ In The School Of Prayer - Andrew Murray

### "LORD, TEACH US TO PRAY."

#Author/Andrew-Murray/With-Christ-in-the-School-of-Prayer

#### Preface

> Power with God is the highest attainment of the life of full abiding.

> The more we abide in Him, and grow unto His likeness, will His priestly life work in us mightily, and our life become what His is, a life that ever pleads and prevails for men.

> "Thou has made us kings and priests unto God." Both in the king and the priest the chief thing is power, influence, blessing. In the king it is the power coming downward; in the priest, the power rising upward, prevailing with God. In our blessed Priest-King, Jesus Christ, the kingly power is founded on the priestly "**He is able** to save to the uttermost, **because** He ever liveth to make intercession." In us, His priests and kings, it is no otherwise; **it is in intercession that the Church is to find and wield its highest power, that each member of the Church is to prove his descent from Israel, who as a prince had power with God and with men, and prevailed.**

> … when we learn to regard (prayer) as the highest part of **the work entrusted to us**, the root and strength of all other work, we shall see that there is nothing that we so need to study and practise as the art of prayer aright.

> … the Father waits to hear every prayer of faith, to give us whatsoever we will, and whatsoever we ask in Jesus' name.

> If there is one thing I think the Church needs to learn, it is that **God means prayer to have an answer**, and that it hath not entered into the heart of man to conceive what God will do for His child who gives himself to believe that his prayer will be heard.

> **God hears prayer**; this is a truth universally admitted, but of which ever few understand the meaning, or experience the power.

> Many complain that they have not the power to pray in faith, to pray the effectual prayer that availeth much. The message I would fain bring them is that **the blessed Jesus is waiting, is longing, to teach them this.** Christ is our life; in heaven He ever liveth to pray; His life in us is an ever[praying life, if we will but trust Him for it. Christ teaches us to pray not only by example, by instruction, by command, by promises, but by **showing us HIMSELF, the ever-living Intercessor, as our Life.**

> May God open our eyes to see what the holy ministry of intercession is to which, as His royal priesthood, we have been set apart. May He give us a large and strong heart to believe what mighty influence our prayers can exert. And may all fear as to our being able to fulfil our focation vanish as we see Jesus, living ever to pray, living in us to pray, and standing surety for our prayer-life.

---

#### First Lesson - "Lord, Teach Us to pray;" Or, The Only Teacher

#NT/Luke-11v1

> [!note] **Luke 11:1**
> 
> 1 One day in a place where Jesus had just finished praying, one of His disciples requested, **"Lord, teach us to pray,** just as John taught his disciples."

> As we grow in the Christian life, the thought and the faith of the Beloved Master in His never-failing intercession becomes ever more precious, and the hope of being **like Christ** in His intercession gains an attractiveness before unknown.

> And as we see Him pray, and remember that there is none who can pray like Him, and none who can teach like Him, we feel the petition of the disciples, "Lord teach us to pray," is just what we need.  

> **And as we think how ll He is and has, how He Himself is our very own, how He is Himself our life, we feel assured that we have but to ask, and He will be delighted to take us up into closer fellowship with Himself, and teach us to pray even as He prays.

> … Shall we not go to the Blessed Master and ask Him to enrol our names too anew in that school which He always keeps open for those who long to continue their studies in the Divine art of prayer and intercession?

> As we meditate, we shall find each word of the petition we bring to be full of meaning.

> "Lord, teach us **to pray**." Yes, **to pray**.  

> Though in its beginnings prayer is so simple that the feeblest child can pray, yet it is at the same time the highest and holiest work to which man can rise. It is fellowship with the Unseen and Most Holy One. The powers of the eternal world have been placed at its disposal. It is the very essence of true religion, the channel of all blessings, the secret of power and life. **Not only for ourselves, but for others, for the Church, for the world, it is to prayer that God has given the right to take hold of Him and His strength.**

> It is on prayer that the promises wait for their fulfilment, the kingdom for its coming, the glory of God for its full revelation.

> **And for this blessed work, how slothful and unfit we are.** It is only the Spirit of God can enable us to do it aright. How speedily we are deceived into a resting in the form, **while the power is wanting.**

> True prayer, that takes hold of God's strength, that availeth much, to which the gates of heaven are really opened wide -- who would not cry, Oh for some one to teach me thus to pray?

> **Jesus has opened a school, in which He trains His redeemed ones, who specially desire it, to have power in prayer. Shall we not enter it with the petition, Lord! it is just this we need to be taught! O teach us to pray**.

> "Lord, teach **us** to pray." Yes, **us**, Lord. We have read in Thy Word with what power Thy believing people of old used to pray, and what mighty wonders were done in answer to their prayers. And if this took place under the Old Covenant, in the time of preparation, how much more wilt Thou not now, in these days of fulfilment, give Thy people this sure sign of Thy presence in their midst. We have heard the promises given to Thine apostles of the power of prayer in Thy name, and have seen how gloriously they experienced their truth; we know for certain, they can become true to us too. We hear continually even in these days what glorious tokens of Thy power Thou dost still give to those who trust Thee fully. Lord! these all are men of like passions with ourselves; **teach us to pray so too**.  

> The promises are for us, the powers and gifts of the heavenly world are for us. O teach **us** to pray so that we may receive abundantly. 

> To us too Thou has **entrusted** Thy work, on our prayer too the coming of Thy kingdom depends, in our prayer too, Thou canst glorify Thy name; "Lord teach us to pray." Yes, us, Lord; we offer ourselves as learners; we would indeed be taught of Thee. "Lord, teach **us** to pray."

> "Lord, **teach** us to pray." Yes, we feel the need now of being **taught** to pray. At first there is no work appears so simple; later on, none that is more difficult; and the confession is forced from us: **We know not how to pray as we ought**.  

> In spiritual things we do not always seek the most needful things or fail in praying according to the law of the sanctuary.

> In temporal things we are still less able to avail ourselves of the wonderful liberty our Father has given us to ask what we need. And even when we know what to ask, how much there is still needed to make prayer acceptable. **It MUST be to the glory of God, in full surrender to His will, in full assurance of faith, in the name of Jesus, and with a perseverance that, if need be, refuses to be denied.** All this must be learned. It can only be learned in the school of much prayer, for practice makes perfect.

> Amid the painful consciousness of ignorance and unworthiness, in the struggle between believing and doubting, the heavenly art of effectual prayer is learnt. Because even when we do not remember it, there is One, the Beginner and Finisher of faith and prayer, who watches over our praying, and sees to it that **in all who trust Him for it** their education in the school of prayer shall be carried on to perfection. 

> **"LORD**, teach us to pray." None can teach like Jesus, none but Jesus; therefore we call on Him, "LORD, teach us to pray." 

> A pupil needs a teacher who knows his work, how has the gift of teaching, who in patience and love will descend to the pupil's needs. Blessed by God! **Jesus is all this, and much more**. He knows what prayer is. It is Jesus, praying Himself, who teaches to pray. He knows what prayer is. He learned it amid the trials and tears of His earthly life. In heaven it is still His beloved work; His life there is prayer. **Nothing delights Him more than to find those whom He can take with Him into the Father's presence, whom He can clothe with power to pray down God's blessing on those around them, whom He can train to be His fellow-workers in the intercession by which the kingdom is to be revealed on earth.** 

> He knows how to teach. Now by the urgency of felt need, then by the confidence with which joy inspires. Here by the teaching of the Word, there by the testimony of another believer who knows what it is to have prayer heard.  

> **By His Holy Spirit he has access to our heart, and teaches us to pray by showing us the sin that hinders the prayer, or giving us the assurance that we please God.** He teaches, by giving not only thoughts of what to ask or how to ask, but by **breathing within us the very spirit of prayer, by living within us as the Great Intercessor.**  

> Jesus never taught His disciples how to preach, only how to pray.

> **To know how to speak to God is more than knowing how to speak to man.** Not power with men, but power with God is the first thing. Jesus loves to teach us how to pray.

> … would it not be just what we need, to ask the Master for a month to give us a course of special lessons the art of prayer? As we meditate on the words He spake on earth, let us yield ourselves to his teaching in the fullest confidence that with such a teacher we **shall** make progress. Let us take time, not only to meditate, but to pray, to tarry at the foot of the throne, and be trained to the work of intercession. Let us do so in the assurance that amidst our stammerings and fears He is carrying on His work most beautifully.  

> **He will breathe His own life, which is all prayer, into us.** As He makes us partakers of His righteousness and His life, He will of His intercession, too. As the members of His body, as a holy priesthood, we shall take part in His priestly work of pleading and prevailing with God for men. Yes, let us most joyfully say, ignorant and feeble though we be, "Lord teach us to pray."

---

> Blessed Lord! who ever livest to pray, Thou canst teach me too to pray, me too to live ever to pray. In this Thou lovest to make me share Thy glory in heaven, that I should pray without ceasing, and ever stand as a priest in the presence of my God.
> 
> Lord Jesus! I ask Thee this day to enrol my name among those who confess that they know not how to pray as they ought, and specially ask Thee for a course of teaching in prayer. Lord! teach me to tarry with Thee in the school, and give Thee time to train me. May a deep sense of my ignorance, of the wonderful privilege and power of prayer, of the need of the Holy Spirit as the Spirit of prayer, lead me to cast away my thoughts of what I think I know, and make me kneel before Thee in true teachableness and poverty of spirit.  
> 
> And fill me, Lord, with the confidence that with such a teacher as Thou art I **shall** learn to pray. In the assurance that I have as my teacher, Jesus who is ever praying to the Father, and by His prayer rules the destinies of His Church and the world, **I will not be afraid.** As much as I need to know of the mysteries of the prayer-world, Thou wilt unfold for me. **And when I may not know, Thou wilt teach me to be strong in faith, giving glory to  
> God.**

Blessed Lord! **Thou wilt not put to shame Thy scholar who trusts Thee, nor, by Thy grace, would he Thee, either. Amen.**

## Music

- *Hear I Am, Lord*
- *How Great Is Our God*
- *Singing God's Names*

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes
