---
Title: 2024-07-20 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 20, 09:50 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 20, 12:07 pm
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-20
journal-end-date: 2024-07-20
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 15

- v 10 - Now therefore why do you test God, that you should put a yoke upon the neck of the disciples which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
	- This is one of the main Scriptures which shows that those who desire to go back under the Law are putting a "yoke upon the neck of the disciples". Also, Peter makes it clear that no one under the Law are able to stand under it. 
- v 11 - But we believe that we shall be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, **just as we are**.  
	- Faith in Jesus' death, burial and resurrection fulfilled all the requirements of the Law. There is nothing else needed. Jesus and nothing else.
- v 28-29 - For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us, **to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things:** that you abstain from things sacrificed to idols, blood, things strangles, and from sexual immorality. If you keep yourselves from these, it shall be well with you. Farewell.

## Newsletters

### Faith's Checkbook - Looking for Him

> **Hebrews 9:28**
> 
> 28 so also Christ was offered once to bear the sins of many; and He will appear a second time, not to bear sin, but to bring salvation to those who eagerly await Him.

> Our Lord thus appears only to those who look for Him. He will not be seen in this character by men whose eyes are blinded with self and sin. To them He will be a terrible Judge, and nothing more. 

> We must first look to Him, and then look for Him; and in both cases our look shall be life.

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray

### Twenty-Second Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'And Uphold Me with a Free Spirit' -- Ver 12b

BSB - … and sustain me with a willing spirit.

- *uphold - H5564 - samak* #Hebrew/H5564-samak
	- to lean, lay, rest, support, put, uphold, lean upon
		- to lean or lay upon, rest upon, lean against
		- to support, uphold, sustain
	- to support or brace oneself
	- to sustain, refresh, revive
- *free - H5081 - nadib* #Hebrew/H5081-nadib
	- inclined, willing, noble, generous
		- incited, inclined, willing
		- noble, princely (in rank)
		- noble (in mind and character)
	- noble one

> When grace makes the soul partaker of the favour of God and the Spirit of God, the joy of God's salvation is shed abroad in the heart, and then as the fruit of this prevenient blessing, heart and mouth are opened to make others acquainted with the grace of God.

> **Every ransomed soul must be a witness and an example of the grace of God.** For the honour of God and the salvation of others, he is bound to make known what great things the Lord has done for his soul.  

> … only when believers confess with distinctness and boldness what God has done for them, and show by word and walk that it is due to His compassion that they can set their seal to it that God is faithful.

> He (David) knew that unless he had the Spirit of faith he could not know how to speak aright.  

> Grace not only imparts forgiveness of sins, renewal of heart and sanctification of life, but is also prepared to put the soul in a position to praise God and confess His name in the midst of every duty to which it is summoned.

> … grace not only begins the work of redemption, but also completes it; …

> 'A free spirit': the word yields very important points. 'Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty,' freedom from all servitude, from all oppression, freedom especially from the fear and doubt which more than else weaken the soul. It is only in the life of the Spirit and the en tire surrender of the heart to be filled by the Spirit of God that abiding freedom can be found.

> Believer, pray for a free spirit. Grace will certainly bestow it upon you. **You hinder grace in its work if you remain without this blessing.**

## Music

- *Our God Is Mighty To Save*
- *Testify to Love*

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes
