---
Title: 2024-07-28 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 28, 08:43 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 29, 05:54 am
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-28
journal-end-date: 2024-07-28
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 22

#Bible-Character/Paul #Bible-Character/Gamaliel #Bible-Character/Ananias #Bible-Character/Stephen 

## Newsletters

### Blue Letter Bible

#NT/1-Peter-5v6

> [!note] **1 Peter 5:6**
> 
> 6 Humble yourselves, therefore, under God's mighty hand, so that in due time He may exalt you.

> That same hand of God which presses us down is waiting to raise us up when we are prepared to bear the blessing.  

> … he that humbles himself under the hand of God shall not fail to be enriched, uplifted, sustained, and comforted by the every-gracious One.

> It is a habit of Jehovah to cast down the proud, and lift up the lowly.

> Do we cry out impatiently for the blessing? Would we wish for untimely honor? What are we at? Surely we are not truly humbled, or we should wait with quiet submission. So let us do.

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray

### Twenty-Nineth Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'The Sacrifices of God Are a Broken Spirit: a Broken and a Contrite Heart, O God, Thou Wilt not despise.' -- Ver 17

> … a contrite spirit is a sure characteristic of the penitent soul who is seeking grace.  

> **Even in the life of grace, from the beginning on to the very end, the disposition with which God is especially well-pleased is that which is presented in the expression -- a broken and a contrite heart.** Of the life of thanksgiving, which the Spirit of the Lord desires to make us experience, this is an abiding and unmistakable feature: 'The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit.'

> This utterance teaches us how thoroughly the broken spirit will, for the believer, be at all times a token of grace.

> ** … for the maintenance of the right relation, and the enjoyment of the right relation, and the enjoyment of the right kind of intercourse betwixt the Lord and His redeemed, it remains necessary that man should always continue mindful who he is, and how much he is indebted to grace.  

> **Ezekiel 16:62-23 KJV**
> 
> I will establish My covenant with thee; and thou shalt know that I am the Lord: that thou mayest remember, and be confounded, and never open thy mouth any more because of thy shame, when I have forgiven thee all that thou hast done, saith the Lord God.
> 
> This word further teaches us to understand how it is just in the broken heart and the contrite spirit that the freedom and joy of the life of grace will be chiefly manifested.  

> … His life can be fully revealed only in our death, His power in our weakness, His comfort in our sorrow, His help in our impotence, His healing in our oppression, His love in our contrition. And we shall also experience that **the more we die to ourselves and yield ourselves willingly to the disciple of the Spirit, by which our spirit shall be continually more and more broken, so that all of its own hope and power shall be taken away, the more shall the consciousness of God's good pleasure and the experience of His nearness to the broken in the heart become our portion.**

## Music

- *Turn Our Hearts, Lord*
- *Victory Is Mine*
- *It Is Well With My Soul*
- *Create In Me A Clean Heart, O God*

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes
