---
Title: 2024-07-12 - Study
Type: Journal/Study
Date-Created: 2024 July 12, 05:40 am
Date-Modified: 2024 July 19, 08:27 am
journal: Study
journal-start-date: 2024-07-12
journal-end-date: 2024-07-12
journal-section: day
---
## Bible Reading

### Acts 7

- v 8 Covenant of Circumcision #Covenant/of-Circumcision #Circumcision 
- v25 And he (Moses) thought his brothers would understand that God was granting deliverance to them by his hand, but they did not understand.
	- Does this indicate that Moses knew it was his destiny to free the Israelites from their bondage?  
	- How often do we try to force God's promises to happen before their proper time?
		- I'm hearing "to everything there is a season, and a time for **every** purpose under heaven." (Ecclesiastes 3:1)
		- This lines up with the ending of the season of being hidden; and the new season of being launched out
- v 27 "… "who appointed you a ruler and a judge over us?"
	- How prophetic!!! The Israelite had no idea that this was indeed exactly what Moses' destiny was to be. See v 35
- v 30 "And when forty years had been completed …" 
	- the season of "waiting" and/or "being hidden" was finished. He had learned the lessons God needed him to learn and God had formed the necessary character required for Moses to be, and do, what God had called him to be and do.
- v 34 "I have certainly seen the mistreatment of my people … and have heard their groaning, and I have come down to deliver them. And now come, I will send you …"
	- Here am I, Lord … send me.
- v 35 This Moses whom they had repudiated, saying, 'Who appointed you a ruler and a judge?' -- this man God sent as both ruler and redeemer with the help of the angel who appeared to him in the bush.
- v 51 - You stiff-necked people and **uncircumcised in hearts and in your ears**! You constantly resist the Holy Spirit! … #Uncircumcised/In-Heart #Uncircumcised/In-Ears
	- uncircumcised 
		- in hearts
		- and in ears
	- **constantly** resist the Holy Spirit

## Newsletters

### Gary Wilkerson - Passive Faith

#Quote/Gary-Wilkerson/Passive-Faith 

> This type of passive faith says that you are not going to take action on your own behalf. You are not going to try to make things happen by the will of man. You will allow God to orchestrate the events in your life in such a way that his plan will be accomplished. -- **Gary Wilkerson - Passive Faith**

## Devotions

#Author/Andrew-Murray/Have-Mercy-Upon-Me  
*Have Mercy Upon Me* by Andrew Murray 

### Fourteenth Day

#### Have Mercy upon Me, O God

##### 'Make Me to Hear Joy and Gladness; that the Bones Which Thou Hast Broken My rejoice.' -- Ver 8

> … when God forgives, He forgives completely; but when He receives anyone again, He receives him with His whole heart. The Lord does not desire that there should be any cloud resting betwixt Him and the believing soul; He desires that the soul should know that it is restored completely to His favour, as completely as if it had never committed sin ,and that it may now rejoice with confidence in the forgiving love of God.  

## Music

## YouTube Videos

## Other

### Quotes
